Boipelo.MereWhile Yolande Sesiame from Hull Street voices her concerns during the memoradum handover, Maku Maris of Kapa Bokone (in the yellow shirt), Norman Shushu (the South African Communist Party provincial secretary) and other bystanders listen attentively. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The South African Communist Party (SACP) has demanded the immediate dismissal of all municipal and government officials implicated in crimes against humanity and in forced removal scams.This follows various incidents where families were evicted from what they thought were their houses, due to irregularities concerning the title deeds.The SACP has further demanded the appointment of a commission of inquiry concerning the matter in order to ensure that all the affected people find closure.The demands were part of the grievances raised during the march to the municipality on Friday (28/10).The march was supported by the Kapa Bokone Community Development Foundation. Kimberley is said to have the highest rate of illegal evictions.The marchers mostly included residents from Blumanda in Galeshewe, Greater No. 2 and Hull Street.They demanded that the municipality should put all evictions on hold until the matter has been thoroughly investigated.According to Kapa Bokone, Blumanda, Greater No. 2 and Hull Street are the areas where most evictions take place.Maku Maris from Kapa Bokone said the office of the mayor needs to take responsibility.Maris further said that magistrates need to listen to both the evicted and the evictees before deciding on eviction orders.He said these crimes against humanity are historical and continue to be perpetra-ted. Norman Shushu, the provincial secretary of the SACP, labelled the regrettable incidents as white collar organised crime.According to Shushu this white collar organised crime was committed by criminals, the business community, officials in the Sol Plaatje Municipality and government departments. The masses of our people and a number of communities, as well as organised progressive formations, have approached the SACP in the Northern Cape to report illegal evictions in the vicinity of the Sol Plaatje Municipality. He recalled an incident where the SACP had to intervene when an 80-year old Galeshewe woman was to be evicted. The court order stated that she had been tresspassing in a house that she thought was hers.He pointed out that this seemed to be a pattern throughout the community.According to him poor single women, child-headed households and elderly people were mainly affected. He added that all of this took place under the watch of the municipality that the community voted into power.On accepting the memorandum, the Sol Plaatje mayor, Mangaliso Matika, said that the municipality will have a response ready in two weeks time.He said that the march has encouraged the municipality to act on the mandate it received at the recent municipal elections. He however condemned illegal land invasions, saying it did not contribute to the development of the city.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.