Karabo Ngoepe, News24An enormous cobra clings on while a snake catcher tries to pull it out of a toilet in a flat in Pretoria. (Anton Meijer) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - More than 24 hours later, residents of a Pretoria apartment block are no closer to finding a venomous snouted cobra that was&nbsp;discovered&nbsp;swimming in one of the building's toilet bowls."I went to every single apartment and there is absolutely nothing," snake catcher Barry Greenshields told News24."It's a bit of a bummer."Greenshields was tasked with capturing the serpent, which is more than 2m long. A very frustrated Greenshields said there was a possibility the slithery creature, captured on video on Thursday,&nbsp;could have left the apartment block."I spoke to someone who watched the video and he believed the snake went out the same way it came in. I hope he is right about that," he said.Uncharted territoryThe snake was discovered on Thursday morning having taken refuge in the toilet bowl of one of the apartments of Glenletta Courts in Lynnwood Glen. It was believed it entered through the drainage system.A video was recorded of the poisonous snake stuck in the toilet bowl. Greenshields tried to remove it but it was hanging on to something inside. The snake then went back inside the bowl before disappearing. Watch here:The snake catcher then found himself delving into uncharted territory and having to ask for permission to check people's toilets for the reptile. He has since given residents his contact details and would be on standby for the entire weekend in case the snake reappears. Anton Meijer, a resident at the complex, said despite fearing the snake, people had to continue with their lives. He admitted that it would not be an easy thing to do."Life must go on. I can't keep living in fear like this. They presume the snake has gone out the same way it came in, so we will continue with life," he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.