Lynn.Hitchcock THE choice between the ANC and its president sounds difficult for the ANC NEC. Since I joined the ANC many years ago I had been taught that the ANC is bigger than the individual member, but today the opposite is true. How much can the ANC and the country lose before the ANC NEC realise the damage that Jacob Zuma is doing to the movement.However, on the other hand, the people of South Africa must punish us, as the ANC, for bringing to them a man like Zuma who the former president, Thabo Mbeki, fired from government after being implicated in the corrupt judgment against Schabir Shaik. This is no coincident as others knew very well that it is wrong for the ANC to elect him as president of the ANC and later of South Africa. Everyone in the NEC is afraid to confront him and ask him to step down after his many blunders starting with Nkandla, Waterkloof, Marikana, Nhlanhla Nene, the charging of Pravin Gordhon and currently State Capture . They are afraid to speak out because the majority of them are the beneficiaries of the same scandals, hence they defended the appointment of Hlaudi Motsoaneng, Dudu Myeni, Des Van Rooyen, Mosebenzi Zwane, and all the other incompetent individuals whose contribution in government is negative-five.The outcome of the American elections is no different from the Polokwana and Mangaung outcomes for South Africa. A default leadership is always a reflection of the membership of such organisations. The calibre of leadership we have in the ANC today at all levels is an embarrassment as it replicates what is happening at national level. I hope this generation of young people don t copy anything from the current leadership if they are serious about the future of the ANC and the country.For various and given reasons, most provinces of the ANC are silent on the state of our organisation with the exception of Gauteng, and they are silent because most of them are no different to Zuma. Even the veterans of our movement have been rendered useless by this default leadership.I believe it is too late to think that the ANC National Conference of 2017 will clean up the mess that has been taking place since 2007. The ANC needs serious selfish leadership that will sacrifice their needs and work to restore the dignity of the ANC and the government. We are seriously bidding to be the opposition party in 2019 by the way things are done now. No one in the ANC NEC leadership is prepared to listen to the multitude of voices that are complaining about the total destruction of both the ANC and reversal of our freedom gains.Please ANC, recall Zuma and restore people's confidence in the ANC and the ANC-led government. We can't behave as if things are normal. Also you must voluntarily resign from the ANC NEC and the ANC Veteran s League and get a national task team to rebuild the ANC or else you must be ready for the total death of the ANC as a revolutionary movement. We must refuse to replace the ANC with a mafia gang pretending to be ANC leadership. Phendule Mbewu ANC BEC member Harry Gwala branch Phendule Mbewu writes in his personal capacity. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.