Derrick Spies, News24 Correspondent The accused in the Panayiotou case. (Derrick Spies, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - The trial of Christopher Panayiotou and his co-accused is currently adjourned, after both the defence and State agreed to use Monday for consultations.Police forensic expert Phillip Bekker was expected to return to the witness stand on Monday to be cross-examined by lawyers for Panayiotou, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko.However, after a lengthy consultation in the judge&rsquo;s chambers on Friday, it was decided that the defence would instead use the day to familiarise themselves with a cellphone tracking report compiled for the State by former SAPS member and cellphone expert, Thereza Botha.Botha&rsquo;s report had been dependent on evidence being led, which related to the cellphone numbers of key players in the case.She had also been waiting for the final forensic reconstruction of the movements of a hired car believed to have been used in the kidnapping of Panayiotou's wife Jayde. This was based on data from the car&rsquo;s tracking device.Terry Price, for Panayiotou, asked earlier that the cross-examination of Bekker stand down until Monday, as his evidence and Botha&rsquo;s report were interlinked. As such, the defence required access to the report before proceeding.Panayiotou, Nenembe and Sibeko stand accused of conspiring to have Jayde murdered on April 21 last year. The trio face charges of conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery and murder. They have pleaded not guilty.Jayde was kidnapped while waiting outside the Stellen Glen complex, Kabega Park, for her lift to work that morning. She was found shot dead in a veld near KwaNobuhle the next day. She worked as a teacher at Riebeek College Girls' High School in Uitenhage. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.