Tammy Petersen, News24 Masixole Mlandu with his lawyer Lufuno Musetsho. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - After appearing in three different courtrooms
on various charges, all the matters against UCT political science student
and activist Masixole Mlandu were postponed in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court
on Wednesday. He faces
charges of malicious damage to property, intimidation and contravening a court
order. An
upbeat Mlandu arrived at the court, along with other activists who
attended proceedings. He said
he was currently completing his university assessments and would write his
exams next year. He
planned to then pursue his Honours, also at UCT. Mlandu
was earlier this month released on bail following incidents of stone
throwing at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's (CPUT) Cape Town
campus, where a door was damaged during protests on October 24. Various
cases This
case, which includes two CPUT workers, was on Wednesday postponed to
December 6 for further investigation. Prior to
the stone throwing, Mlandu was arrested on October 12 after he allegedly led a
group of students who broke into the UCT campus protection services office and
intimidated the guards. This
case was postponed to January 18. Mlandu's October arrest came after he spent the previous week in
Pollsmoor Prison awaiting a bail hearing on charges of malicious damage to
property and assault. He was
then released on R500 bail. Before
this, Mlandu was arrested on October 4 for contravening a court order. He
allegedly tried to force students to take part in campus protests and was part
of a group which barricaded the entrance to Upper Campus. This
matter was postponed to January 18. Mlandu
was also arrested on May 25 for trespassing on campus. Shackville
TRC This case
is expected to be heard next month. Mlandu
was initially expelled due to the role he played in the "Shackville"
protest in February, where students erected a shack on Upper Campus as a symbol
of the struggle for student housing and financial exclusions. Security
guards demolished it. In
September, students had again started protesting, calling for UCT to reinstate
students who had been suspended, interdicted, or expelled following Fees Must
Fall protests. They
called for the university to institute a Shackville Truth and Reconciliation
Commission this year. Mlandu was among those taking part in negotiations about
this with the university. The
university has since agreed to institute this process. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  