Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes Park accused in court (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A police officer testifying in the Rhodes Park trial on Monday morning told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge that he was repeatedly asked by the surviving victims where their husbands were."The two women were frightened and did not say much, but I was repeatedly asked where their husbands were," Sergeant Mlamleli Bathakathi told the court. Bathakathi said he was on standby when he received a call from Cleveland police station after midnight on October 18, 2015.He got out of bed and drove to Cleveland police station where he met two women.The women were then taken to the hospital. He was testifying in the trial of Thabo Nkala, 25, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32.Forced into lakeThey pleaded not guilty to charges of rape, murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park in Kensington on the evening of Saturday, October 17, 2015.&nbsp; They allegedly forced the women's husbands, Zukisa Kela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned. He was told by one of the women she was not going to get examined by a doctor because the men could not rape her. "She did not explain any further, it was as if they were frightened. They were emotional and did not talk much," he said.The second woman was examined by the doctor at the hospital.Neon Da Fonseca Fernandes, who has been living in Kensington for the past 17 years, testified earlier that he was approached by a man named Patrick Murphy who worked for the Crime Fighting Association in the area.CCTV footage"He explained the Rhodes Park incident to me and asked if he could check my CCTV footage," Fernandes said.According to Fernandes, he had installed a CCTV system at his house 3 years ago.Fernandes said he managed to find what Murphy was looking for and made a copy for him, however, the recording dates on the CCTV footage were wrong."He took the footage and put it on his flash drive. He said the dates on my camera were wrong because the incident happened on October 17 and my camera recorded on the October 18," he said. As the two witnesses took the stand on Monday morning the three accused sat motionless in the dock.&nbsp;Ndlovu, who had been suffering from chest pains and having difficulty breathing leading to his hospitalisation at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital last week, was back in court on Monday.&nbsp; The trial was postponed to Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.