Lynn.HitchcockIT sounds like a remake of one of the worst horror crime movies - three innocent people brutally killed in a get-rich- quick scheme to cash in on life insurance policies taken out on the lives of specially chosen victims. At least two of the alleged killers have strong Greytown connections.Five people appeared in the Greytown Magistrate s Court last week - females Doris Jabu Dldla, Hlengiwe Judith Zuma, Mildred Fisani Khoza and two men, Zamokwakhe Joseph Khanyile and Dodo Khumalo - on three charges of premeditated murder, one attempted murder, and two counts of vehicle theft. They applied for bail.The first victim, Mzomuhle Zuma, was allegedly drugged and then hit by a car on the Greytown-Msinga road on 27 August, 2015. The second victim, Sonosakhe Mdlalose, suffered a similar fate, being drugged and then allegedly run over on the Matimatolo road in March.The third victim, Thandeka Princess Gwala, an allegedly mentally disturbed female, survived a similar attack in November, 2015 as well as an alleged second attempt to kill her with a lethal injection while she was in hospital recovering from her injuries. College student, Bongani Gcabashe was the fourth victim, who was shot dead.The first accused to testify before Greytown Magistrate, Mr C.F. Masikane, was Khanyile who told the court he would plead not guilty and denied all allegations. He said the crowd outside the court were there to support him and his co-accused.State advocate Attie Truter told the magistrate that the release of the five on bail would be opposed stating that they would pose a danger to public safety and they would destroy or conceal evidence or interfere with the state s case, etc. He said that evidence to be led by a Hawks investigator would show that before the victims had been killed, life insurance policies had been taken out on their lives. The three female accused had been named as the beneficiaries of the policies, which were submitted to various insurance companies after the killings and a number were paid out.The bail application will be heard on Monday 14 November in the Greytown Magistrate s Court.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.