Angelique Serrao and Pieter-Louis MyburghActing police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Acting police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane did not go to IPID&rsquo;s offices as planned to give a warning statement on Wednesday.&nbsp;News24 reliably learnt on Tuesday that Phahlane had been expected to make a warning statement at the Independent Police Investigative Directorate&rsquo;s (IPID) offices in Pretoria on Wednesday afternoon, in relation to a charge of defeating the ends of justice.&nbsp;The charge relates to an IPID probe into an upmarket house that Phahlane built in the exclusive Sable Hills Waterfront Estate, north of Pretoria.After receiving media queries about the probe, Phahlane allegedly cancelled going to IPID."It is unfortunate that such investigations and/or allegations, if any, are conducted through the media with the sole aim of causing harm and damage to the reputation and integrity of the Acting National Commissioner," his spokesperson Brigadier Mashadi Selepe said.It is understood that IPID has been interviewing witnesses to gather information on how Phahlane, a career policeman, managed to afford the construction of a residence said to be worth about R8m.The charge of defeating the ends of justice relates to Phahlane&rsquo;s alleged contact with witnesses after he learnt that IPID was probing his property, said sources close to the investigation.The IPID investigators are also probing alleged cash payments to a contractor totalling R700 000. The money was allegedly transported in the boot of a car in plastic bags.IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini said they were not in a position to comment without jeopardising their investigations. He said one of their investigators had received death threats related to the probe.&nbsp;An SMS with threats was sent to an investigator, and to forensic investigator Paul O&rsquo;Sullivan, who opened the original case against Phahlane with IPID.&nbsp;"This is a warning to u. we r aware that u workin fo a big foreign spy paul salivan who is funded by his masters. . . u must stop now. we know where u stay and ur family. U must either choose to die with him [sic]," it reads.Dlamini said IPID was taking the threats seriously and would identify the source.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.