Thulani Gqirana, News24President Jacob Zuma (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Supporters backing President Jacob Zuma took to dance and song in expression of their love for him.WATCHCape Town &ndash; Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane on Thursday asked MPs to choose South Africa over President Jacob Zuma.&ldquo;We need the best possible leadership available as we head into turbulent days,&rdquo; he said in the National Assembly, during the party&rsquo;s motion of no confidence in Zuma.Maimane said there were men and women in the African National Congress benches who wanted to do the right thing.&ldquo;If you allow yourselves to be guided by your conscience and your duty to your country, we can achieve something great in this House. I am asking you to take South Africa&rsquo;s side today, to put your country first.&rdquo;LIVE: #NoConfidence debate: A house divided cannot stand - Buthelezi If they chose Zuma, they would have to live with the consequences of their decision, he said.&ldquo;Whatever you choose, history will remember you for that choice. A vote against this motion is a vote for state capture. It is a vote for corruption. It is a vote for theft. It is a vote for power abuse.&rdquo;He called for the members to think of themselves as South Africans first.Earlier in the debate, the Economic Freedom Fighters asked that MPs be allowed to vote in secret. The request was rejected.The party made the request just as the debate started. It led to a 20-minute delay as parties howled and shouted at each other.The party said since Zuma had been elected by secret ballot, he should be removed the same way.Meanwhile, a scuffle broke out in the National Assembly&rsquo;s public gallery while Maimane was speaking. DA and ANC supporters were thrown out.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.