Bridget.SiebertPHOTO: SUPPLIEDMr Pink Mynah 2016 Andr Brahim (left), director of the Gay & Lesbian Network Anthony Waldhausen (centre) and Ms Pink Mynah 2016 Sphesihle Memela. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE successful Pink Mynah Festival 2016, organised by the Gay &amp; Lesbian Network, held several events, including an arts and film festival, a cheese and wine evening, the Pink Mynah Pageant and the Pink Picnic.A film screening at the KZN Museum premiered This is My Rose, a story about love, betrayal, romance and secrets. The aim of the Rose films is to use visual or digital stories to share the indigenous knowledge on gender identity and sexuality in the African context, and to sensitise the community to such issues and challenges.The exhibition also had photos from the #MyRight2B photo competition, which focused on positive stories of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex community.Not forgetting the struggles this community faces every day, there was also a hate-crimes exhibition. Another highlight was the work of internationally renowned American photographer, Michael Ashby. Ashby s Alternative is a collection of portraits that were shot using ambrotype, a 160-year-old form of alternative photography .The cheese and wine evening was at the Aha Imperial Hotel and was a fund-raiser for the Gay &amp; Lesbian Network. It involved four staff members being auctioned to the highest bidder for a lunch date. There was entertainment and wine from Holden Manz, which can be ordered through the network. The Pink Mynah Pageant was also held at the Aha Imperial Hotel. Andr Brahim was declared Mr Pink Mynah 2016 and Sphesihle Memela was declared Ms Pink Mynah 2016.The Pink Mynah Parade, known as Pietermaritzburg s Pride, was filled with colour as the network and allies marched from Market Square to the YMCA.The Gay &amp; Lesbian Network thanks everyone who supported the event and the Department of Arts and Culture for its sponsorship. The network also thanks the artists and people behind the scenes and everyone who attended. - Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.