Lizeka Tandwa, News24Matthews Phosa (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former Mpumalanga premier and ANC treasurer, Mathews Phosa, is not worried about photos of him with employees of a massage parlour owned by&nbsp;self-confessed criminal Guan Jiang Guang. "I take pictures with a lot of people. I am not worried because there is nothing untoward," Phosa told News24 on Monday.&nbsp;Guang's employees came to his home to treat his family."They came to my wife to do treatments. They also treated my family," he said.&nbsp;On Sunday, City Press reported that Guang, a self-confessed criminal and Mbombela spa owner, openly bragged about bribing South African justice and immigration officials. This was according to an Al Jazeera documentary. Guang said he knew State Security Minister David Mahlobo well and that the minister had been a guest at his house.Mahlobo said a number of his "comrades, friends and high-profile personalities visit the Mbombela spa, take photos with Guang's family and some of his staff".He denied knowing Guang. Mahlobo had asked his lawyers to look into bringing a defamation case against Al Jazeera. He had also asked the Mpumalanga police commissioner to investigate all allegations made against him in the documentary. He further asked him to take action against Guang for alleged illegal rhino poaching, and to look into claims that he employed illegal immigrants and circumvented immigration laws.Phosa said President Jacob Zuma needed to appoint an independent body to investigate Mahlobo."Mahlobo has no right to appoint someone to investigate him. The president must appoint someone independent. We need to know and interrupt all rhino trading," he said.@gwalax Phosa apparently at Mahlobo's Spa. Is there suspicion here too pic.twitter.com/rxYb9IyZCa&mdash; SpyBoy (@Mlandzeni1) November 14, 2016@gwalax Phosa apparently at Mahlobo's Spa. Is there suspicion here too pic.twitter.com/rxYb9IyZCa24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.