Seugnet van Zyl, Netwerk24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - As was her habit, she always had her Lotto ticket checked before buying a new one. She’d never expected to win – let alone R25.7m. "I’m still a bit overwhelmed," the 69-year-old Johannesburg winner of the Powerball Plus jackpot told Netwerk24. She did not give her name. She and her husband have been buying a ticket each week for 16 years. "We’ve eventually struck the jackpot." the beaming winner said. She handed in her ticket last Friday at the Pick n Pay where she normally buys her tickets. "The woman behind the counter’s eyes got bigger and bigger and all she said when I asked her what was wrong, was that I’d won big." At that stage, she didn’t know what she’d won, because she had to claim the prize at the office of the National Lottery. The operator also couldn’t give her any information, only that she’d won. "I just cried, because I didn’t know what else to do," she said, when she heard that she was now a millionaire. Zukiswa Nomnganga, spokesperson for Ithuba, the Lottery operator, said as soon as someone won R50 000 or more, the operator received a message that the person had won. "The player then has to go any Lottery office to verify the ticket. R2 000 or less can be paid out at the shop. A payment between R2 000 and R50 000 can be claimed at any Post Office." Nomnganga said the two pensioners had played every week in the hope of winning something. "Even though they never won a lot of money, they dreamt of the day the Lottery would change their lives." The woman’s winning ticket had cost her R22.40 and, to date, she’d never spent more than R30 on a ticket. The winning numbers came from a quick pick. The lucky winner says that soon as it has sunk in properly, they will invest the money. Nomnganga said winners were offered trauma and emotional counselling. Financial advisers were also provided to help with investments. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  