Amanda Khoza, News24Meet Weenen's pothole saint, Isup Hussain Larsahib, 55, who has taken it upon himself to repair damaged roads in his community after a near death experience. (Pic: Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Weenen&rsquo;s patron saint of potholes, Isup Hussain Larsahib, has taken it upon himself to repair his town&rsquo;s dilapidated roads, after narrowly avoiding an accident.Every Sunday with the help of his two grandsons Mohamed Wasim, 9, and Adam Larsahib, 5, the 55-year-old, who works in a butchery, repairs roads in his neighbourhood.Two weeks ago, Larsahib was leaving a petrol station when he was almost involved in an accident."I had to go off the road because there was a minibus taxi which was coming straight for me."To avoid the taxi he hit a pothole and his tyre burst.Larsahib feared the potholes would cause more serious accidents."I was also tired of complaining to our local municipality about the potholes because they don&rsquo;t do anything about it."Larsahib&rsquo;s mission to repair the roads began that moment. Since then, he wakes up early every Sunday and takes the boys along on the adventure."I load the wheelbarrow and the spade into my car and we go off to the road. When I get there, Adam takes the cone and a red flag and he directs traffic. I fill the wheelbarrow with sand and then Mohamed pushes the wheelbarrow for me. Adam also helps carry the small rocks."Larsahib said on Sundays the roads are quiet and their work is not too dangerous. They start around 08:00 and work until 11:30.Larsahib&rsquo;s friends, Shafique Mohamed and Vikash Sarjoo, who have a bakkie, have joined them. They have filled more than 26 potholes on Andries Pretorius Road and Bell Street.He does not get paid for his efforts."I am doing this from my heart. I just want to assist my community. They think I am doing a good job. No one has said thank you to me for doing this, but I am hoping that the municipality will join me."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.