Amanda Khoza, News24 President Jacob Zuma (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg &ndash; In a jibe believed to be aimed at former Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, President Jacob Zuma on Friday said it was important to know your enemy."They even tape [record] you and play the tapes and tell others what you said about them because you don't have money to buy recorders. They have everything," Zuma said at a cadres forum at the Pietermaritzburg city hall.Although Zuma did not talk about the incident directly, it was believed that Zuma was referring to Madonsela's recently released private recording of an interview with Zuma and his lawyer Michael Hulley. The recording was made while she was investigating allegations of state capture.The president complained to the public protector&rsquo;s office after the recording was released to the media.Madonsela's report was released earlier this month after a high court order and the recordings were apparently leaked to eNCA."The Presidency has sought clarity from the office of the public protector on the policy of the institution regarding the release of audio recordings of interviews conducted during the course of investigations," spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga told the media previously.Speaking on Friday, Zuma said, "They call you to come and have dinner with them meanwhile they are recording you and they ask critical questions. You don't even know that you are selling yourself out"."Then they turn and play it back and say, you can hear whose voice it is. Then you realise how dangerous the comrade is. They have recorded everything you said to them."Opposition 'disrupting' ParliamentZuma also hit back at opposition parties in Parliament, saying there were people these days who liked to delay proceedings."They stand up all the time and say nothing. They learnt an English word called 'order', 'point of order'. This is what delayed us."Zuma was referring to an incident that occurred in the National Council of Provinces meeting on Friday morning where EFF members reportedly tried to disrupt Zuma&rsquo;s speech in East London, Eastern Cape.The SABC reported that EEF members said the President has broken his oath of office and therefore has no right to address the sitting. They walked out.President Jacob Zuma after addressing the #CadresForum pic.twitter.com/nJI3fKb2ZZ&mdash; Amanda Khoza (@MandaKhoza) November 18, 2016President Jacob Zuma after addressing the #CadresForum pic.twitter.com/nJI3fKb2ZZ24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.