 The Stikeez frenzy is back on. Before
they'd even seen the displays in the shops, my children were
demanding "Under the Sea Stikeez" with desperation and fervour.
It's like they learnt about them through osmosis, or chemtrails or
something. At the same time, a couple of my
friends posted some thoughtful (and some outraged) updates on social
media, expressing their concern (or rage) that these little bits of
unnecessary plastic were once again a part of our lives. This put me in something of a quandary.
On the one hand, I had my children – as recipients of marketing –
feeling terribly excited about a phenomenon. "We get a free one for
every R150 we spend at Pick n Pay, mom!" On the other, I had my
friends' (and my own) very realistic environmental concerns. Getting my Stikeez facts straight So I did a bit of research. The first
thing I learnt was that Stikeez
are fully recyclable. This means that conscientious consumers
can, when their kids are done with their Stikeez collections, drop
them in a recycling bin for reuse in some other plastic creation. The second thing I learnt was that Pick
n Pay would have to run the campaign for 150 years without one person
recycling a single Stickeez to make up 1% of the current plastic we
send to landfill every year in South Africa.  Now, while "Stikeez are only a small
part of the problem" isn't much of a defence against contributing
to the problem, what we should all be concerned with is not just one
company’s promotional campaign, but our consumption of all
single-use plastic products.  For example, why do single avos need to
come in a beautiful pea-green boat for one? Do we really need to get
a plastic fork with our takeaway lunches? Beverages don't
absolutely have to be sucked through a straw to taste good. And the
bottles from mineral water remain one of the worst plastic pollutants
on the planet. Stop your own indulgent plastic use If you are determined to minimise your
plastics footprint, by all means talk your kids down from their
Stikeez frenzy. But if you’re taking a stand on this one campaign,
instead of cutting your own consumption of pointless, single-use
plastic, then you’re not making much of a difference to the planet
– not really. Don't spoil your kids' fun while
sipping on a bottle of mineral water in the checkout queue, is all
I'm saying. And if you do give in to their heartfelt pleas to
accept a small, free token (read marketing tool) from one of our
country's leading retailers, be sure to pop your extras in a
recycle bin, along with all the other plastic junk you should be
recycling.    