Karabo Ngoepe, News24Sipho Pityana. (News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria &ndash; Under the leadership of Tom Moyane, the SA Revenue Service has become a "rogue unit", says convenor of Save SA, Sipho Pityana."It is my firm belief that Tom Moyane is the real commander in chief of the 'rogue unit' that today runs SARS, and for that he must be punished," said Pityana."Tom Moyane is increasingly emerging as a key figure in the state capture project. He is a facilitator of crime and corruption and a national disgrace."Pityana was speaking on Thursday night during the launch of a book titled Rogue: The inside story of SARS&rsquo;s elite crime-busting unit by former employees Johan van Loggerenberg and Adrian Lackay.Pityana added that under Moyane&rsquo;s stewardship the organisation had become a national disgrace, and called for his arrest.Captured key playerHe claimed Moyane had been fingered as having a role in the landing at Waterkloof Air Force Base of a plane full of guests for a Gupta family wedding in 2013."It is unequivocally clear that we have a problem and, because he is [the] problem, he must go. He must go to jail."Lest we forget that Moyane is alleged to be a key player in the events around the Gupta wedding. He was also a key player in the Zuma-appointed team to investigate the violation of our sovereignty at Waterkloof. We all know that investigation was a complete whitewash. It was clear from that day on that Moyane was captured," he claimed.Lackay echoed Pityana&rsquo;s sentiments and said the organisation had been on a downward spiral since the appointment of Moyane in 2014. He said they approached Moyane about the articles that were being published involving the so-called "rogue unit" and asked him to defend the institution, but he did not do that."We told him, 'you need to challenge these things, they are hurting the institution. Why are we doing nothing to defend the institution?' Nada, no answer, no action."We were told to stop all efforts to present facts to him. All doors were closed and he suspended his entire executive within six weeks of assuming office. That was the start of it," said Lackay.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.