Lizeka Tandwa, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Political party leaders have arrived at the High Court in Pretoria for the"state capture" hearings.WATCHPretoria - Several mass marches will be held in Pretoria on Wednesday. - Are you there? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos.The EFF and the DA are planning individual marches to demonstrate commitment to the Constitution. The marches were initially planned to rally behind Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan after he was charged with fraud by the National Prosecuting Authority. NPA head Shaun Abrahams has since withdrawn the charges against Gordhan, former SARS boss Oupa Magashula and former SARS deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay.Opposition parties have questioned the validity of the fraud charges against Gordhan, saying they were politically motivated to capture the National Treasury. Opposition parties are also currently arguing at the High Court in Pretoria to intervene against President Jacob Zuma's application to have former public protector Thuli Madonsela's state capture report interdicted.On Tuesday, while addressing EFF supporters during the state capture report court hearing, Malema said the EFF would march through the streets of Pretoria to call for Zuma to step down, and for free quality education.He urged parents to take the lead in the march to support the students&rsquo; movement."The demand for free education is a genuine demand. As parents we must not complain when the children are protesting. Children are fighting for their parents. Parents must stop being cowards. We must come and occupy Pretoria and demand quality free education."There is no memorandum. There is no plan where to go. We are just marching and demonstrating our commitment for Zuma to resign."Activists will also be marching from the South Gauteng High Court to Constitution Hill in remembrance of Fezeka Ntsukela Kuzwayo, who accused President Jacob Zuma of rape.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.