Chevon Booysen @ChevonBooysen Morgenson Primary School received R30?000 after winning the Peninsula Beverages Recycle Race. Pictured from left are teacher Yolanda Henry, deputy principal Mylene Smith, head of department Sharon Raphael and Priscilla Urquhart, spokesperson of Peninsula Beverages. (Chevon Booysen) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Morgenson Primary School in Hanover Park is the proud winner of the Peninsula Beverages Recycle Race. The school was rewarded with R30&thinsp;000 yesterday morning in a handover ceremony at the school. Cascade Primary School in Mitchell&rsquo;s Plain walked away with R20&thinsp;000 for winning second place. In third place, Arcadia Primary School from Bonteheuwel was rewarded with R10&thinsp;000 prize money. Excited pupils shrieked with cheer when the announcement was made that they had collected the most recyclable waste during the drive. The competition ran for August and September. During this time pupils, their parents and teachers collected as much recycled plastic, glass, cans and paper as possible for their school. Head of department at Morgenson Primary Sharon Raphael says they are &ldquo;beyond excited&rdquo; after hearing that they won. &ldquo;I am just really proud of the efforts of our pupils, their parents and staff alike. We really put a lot into this initiative,&rdquo; she says. Raphael explains they introduced the competition to the learners through the environmental club Soul Buddyz. &ldquo;We introduced it to the rest of the pupils by reciting poems which dealt with environmental conservation and awareness. And to further motivate the pupils we gave weekly prizes to classes which made for friendly competition between classes. We also had recycling monitors who would go onto the school field and collected waste on the field,&rdquo; Raphael explains. &ldquo;One of our teachers, Yolanda Dudley, spearheaded this initiative at the school. Our principal Envor Petersen motivated everyone to get involved, holding weekly assemblies to encourage learners to bring more recyclable waste to the school. He will be so happy to hear of the achievement. We also had a floating trophy that went to different classes weekly depending on who brought in the most waste. They then had bragging rights for a week along with the runners-up,&rdquo; she says. She adds churches in the area also got involved by donating their waste, adding that parents also came to the school and dropped off cardboard boxes. Asked what the school&rsquo;s plans are with its prize money, Raphael says they want to use the money for resources at the school. &ldquo;We hope to invest the money for resources at the school that our pupils can benefit from. We also wish to use it for the feeding scheme at the school, which currently feeds about 150 pupils,&rdquo; she says. Raphael says they will continue with the initiative even after the competition has ended. Priscilla Urquhart, spokesperson of Peninsula Beverages, has congratulated all the schools that took part in the Recycle Race &ldquo;for their terrific efforts&rdquo;. She urges them to continue recycling in their daily lives.Arcadia Primary School came third in the Peninsula Beverages Recycling Race, Morgenson Primary School won the competition and Cascade Primary School came second with learners&rsquo; recycling efforts.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.