 Melanie Verwoerd While
living in Ireland, I became fond of a slightly crude expression which the Irish
use to dismiss someone who has made a complete and utter fool of him- or
herself. They would proclaim loudly: “Fecken eejit!” Well, I think we can all
agree that this adequately describes Shaun Abrahams and his shenanigans of the
last three weeks. Not that he
thinks that way. During his press
conference on Monday it became clear that, despite costing our economy tens of
billions of rands, destroying the image of the NPA completely and causing
devastating pain and damage to the standing of the three people involved, he
portrayed himself as the hero. He was
the man who invited the three accused to make presentations, he was the one who then applied his mind and gave due
consideration to all the facts and he was
the one who in the interest of justice, nogal,
then overturned the original decision. He
was the defender of the truth who rectified the sad situation. Superman Shaun
to the rescue. Of
course, he first tried to dazzle us with
45 minutes of the technicalities of clause this and subsection that. I have to
admit, I dozed off for a few seconds – maybe that was the intention. Luckily I
woke up in time for the announcement that charges had been withdrawn. Then, as
always, came the good bits: question time. Of course Superman Shaun reminded us
that he is really a good guy, since he could have just issued a press release.
But he really wanted to take us into his confidence and be transparent. Haai,
dankie Oom Shaun. How kind of you! Most
importantly he needed to be very clear that he had made no mistake in originally
charging the three. Oh, wait! Actually it wasn’t him who charged them. It was
two of his juniors. Blame them. And of course they are not the only ones to
blame. Pravin Gordhan should have presented himself for the warning statement,
then this would not have happened. Blame him. Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula should
have not chosen to be silent when they presented themselves to the Hawks. Blame
them. The Hawks did not present him with any evidence of the Vlok Symington
affidavit. Blame them. (Not that it would have made a blind difference, since
he admitted not having read the docket, before he told the whole world he was
charging our finance minister and two other senior officials with fraud.) And no, he therefore
“certainly, certainly does not have to apologise to anyone or resign”. Actually,
he does – on both fronts. Firstly, he
owes this country, its people and above all, Pravin Gordhan, Ivan Pillay, Oupa
Magashula and their families a big apology. He clearly has no idea how much
strain these last weeks have put on them and their families.  Or perhaps he just doesn’t care about that or
the fact that he has seriously damaged their reputations. I hope that they sue
Shaun Abrahams and his office for the damage caused. Sadly as a
nation, we cannot sue him or the NPA for costing the country billions. It is
not only the R50bn hat was lost on the stock exchange the day of
the announcement. It is the cost to the currency, imports, exports, government
bonds and the loss in confidence that takes years to rebuild. Of course if we
do get downgraded by the rating agencies,  the decision to prosecute our Finance Minister
would certainly have contributed to the downgrade. And who will ultimately pay
for it? The ordinary people of this country. Superman
Shaun emphasised repeatedly that he was only doing his job and has not, nor
will he ever, pay “due regard to political considerations”. It took me a few
minutes to stop laughing and catch my breath after he said that. He must think
we are the “eejits”. Maybe he can try this line on the comrades in Luthuli
House next time he goes and visits number one and his favourite NEC members. No
wonder people are calling him Shaun the Sheep on social media. I had
another laughing fit, when he tried to convince everyone that this sordid
affair has done nothing to damage the credibility of his office. In fact he
actually wanted us to believe that the press conference of Monday would
increase people’s faith in the office. The most
startling example of the lack of political insight was his response as to why
he did not review the case more carefully before he announced the prosecution
of the three men. “I can’t know what happens in all the cases in this country.
If something happens in the lower courts all over the country, do you want me
to know what is going on? If you ask me what is happening in Court 15 or in the
Pretoria Regional or District court right now I would not be able to tell you...”
he snapped at a journalist. So, he wanted to know from said journalist, on what
basis he could have intervened on this matter. Let me try and explain this slowly
and simply. Because, IT WAS THE NATIONAL MINISTER OF FINANCE!! You know the guy
in charge of our economy, that one!!! Eish!! Even the real Shaun the Sheep
would have gotten this one! Ultimately
though, it is not only the arrogance, lack of responsibility or political
naivety that should ensure Shaun Abrahams’ resignation. It is his sheer
incompetency. In the press
conference three weeks ago, he acknowledged not knowing if anyone had
previously been prosecuted on the same issue. Yet, on Monday, he had to admit that
thousands had taken early retirement before. There was no attempt to establish
any jurisprudence – the 101 of law. Furthermore neither he, nor anyone in his
office thought to look at other cases involving Mr. Pillay and so missed the
Vlok Symington memo.  Even worse, after
he was made aware of it by the Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom under the
Law, he still did not know that it was in the public domain since 2014. It was
up to those pesky journalists to tell him in the press conference. One has to
wonder if the video footage of the hostage keeping of Vlok Symington did not
surface, would he have gone ahead with the charges? He also wanted
us to know that after Pillay and Magashula came to plead with him to reconsider
the charges, Superman Shaun very efficiently asked SARS for an affidavit as to
why they handled Pillay differently, checked with the Government Employee
Pension Fund about their rules, checked on the e-mails of the acting DG of DPSA
and also listened to the Pillay and Magashula’s versions of what happened. Why
on earth was that not done before he threw a massive question mark over our
finance minister and his former officials? Surely for the sake of building up a
case his office should have ensured that those involved had been interviewed on
their version of the events? There is no
question in my mind that Shaun Abrahams can no longer stay as head of the NPA.
If he doesn’t want to resign, the President should relieve him of his duties,
or the ANC should re-deploy him, perhaps in Luthuli house. I’m sure he knows
his way there. If he doesn’t resign or get fired, it will be  proof once and for all that he was sheepishly
following his political masters as most of us suspect. *Melanie Verwoerd is a former ANC MP and SA Ambassador to Ireland.   