Iavan Pijoos, News24Two of the Rhodes Park accused (Iavan Pijoos,News24). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A witness in the Rhodes Park trial told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge on Wednesday that one of the accused said he would not be the only one arrested for the crime.&nbsp;"He was saying something like, he was not going to die alone. He was not going to go down for this alone," Patrick Murphy, a local community policing forum member testified on Wednesday. He said one of the men who appeared in CCTV footage being used as evidence in the case admitted he was part of the robbery, but that did he not commit the rape.READ MORE: Accused suffering from lung problems"He was adamant that he did not do the rape, but admitted that they put the two men into the water," Murphy testified.An informant identified Thabo Nkala, 25, from the footage as "Rasta".Nkala, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32 have pleaded not guilty to charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape and murder.Rhodes Park regularThey were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park. They allegedly forced the women's husbands, Zukisa Kela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned.In CCTV footage showed to the court, a man is seen walking past the camera at 19:06.&nbsp;Four seconds later a second man, with dreadlocks and what looks like beanie on his head, holding a pair of shoes in his right hand walked past. He was identified as Nkala.&nbsp;READ MORE: Tears as police officer explains Rhodes Park murderMurphy said when the footage was shown to Nkala, he had confirmed that it was him. He had also confirmed that he was a regular at Rhodes Park.A few seconds later four more men are seen running past. The informer identified two of them as "Brian" and "Je-Je".Four minutes later the last two of the men, identified as "Mdu" and "Cosmo", made their way past the camera.&nbsp;Poor quality footageOn Tuesday Murphy said the names given by the informer, six of which Murphy gave to the court, confirmed that most of them stay in the Yeoville area - about 5km from Rhodes Park in Kensington, where the crime took place.He said these were likely their street names.When the video footage was shown to the court, the three accused anxiously looked at the screen. Nkala showed no emotion when the court heard he was the first to be identified.READ MORE: 'God will deal with them' - Rhodes park victimThe defence argued that the footage was of poor quality and made it difficult to identify the suspects.Murphy said it was not high-definition quality but the suspects were identifiable.However, defence attorney Portia Phahlane argued that the people in the footage could have come from anywhere.Murphy looked at the screen, nodded his head and said it was possible.The defence stood down and the State called the next witness. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.