Kaveel Singh, News24Dr Albertina Luthuli. (Saapam, Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; A host of activists, business and civil society leaders called for change in government on Wednesday during #SaveSouthAfrica demonstrations throughout the country. The Active Citizen's Movement (ACM) hosted the Durban event where one of the speakers was Albertina Luthuli, daughter of former ANC president Albert Luthuli. The event attracted a relatively small crowd of around 200 people at the Gugu Dlamini Park in the city. In her address Luthuli said the country's leadership was responsible for the "difficult times" South Africa has experienced in recent years. There is no question, leadership has to take responsibility. As far as I am concerned, if one man is not responsible, then who is?"Who is going to be accountable when you say no, everybody else is responsible for the mess? Then why do we hold elections and put leadership in. Even leadership has layers - there is a final leader who must be responsible," she vehemently added.Powerful words from Albertina Luthuli saying if leadership isn't responsible then who is? @News24 #SaveSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/KeCUFLZ8biCivil society the key to SA successMeanwhile Ela Gandhi, granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi, said a strong civil society was key to strengthening South Africa. "I think civil society broadening is an important step for SA. If we can build moral and ethical values that these civil society organisations bring, we will grow and get back to the high level our country was regarded in after Nelson Mandela was released."She said the South Africans as a whole have been unhappy with the direction the country has been taking over the years. She added that SA's revenue service was considered one of the best in the world under the leadership of Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan. "We felt very proud of that and when that was attacked it was the last straw. That is what brought us all together."Religious leader and former Black Consciousness Movement activist Bishop Reuben Phillip said he supported a "significant move in the life of our country". Phillip said poor leadership was to blame. "In my years of activism, I have never seen so much anger and frustration at what's going on in the country, particularly with the president and political leadership. We are seeing corruption, falling of our education, and poverty on a scale we haven't seen before &ndash; all this is troubling." Charges against Gordhan droppedGordhan was meant to appear in court on Wednesday after he had been charged by the National Prosecuting Authority for fraud related crimes. NPA head Shaun Abrahams on Monday however dropped the charges against Gordhan and two former Sars senior officials, Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay. The charges were dropped after Magashula and Pillay made representations to Abrahams.Abrahams has since been called to brief Parliament on the dropping of charges.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.