Iavan Pijoos, News24Two of the Rhodes Park accused Thabo Nkala and Admore Ndlovu. (Iavan Pijoos,News24). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - After his arrest, one of the men involved in the Rhodes Park trial identified his accomplices from CCTV footage and showed police where they stayed, a witness told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge on Wednesday."He made comments during the video. He had named everyone in the video and also identified himself in the video. Before he was detained in Cleveland he took us to several places to where the people in the video [resided]," Constable Lufuno Brian Sono said.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Sono said the man, known as "Je-Je" had claimed he was part of the incident, but said he did not rape the two women.Sono said he received a call from one of his informants stating they had spotted the second man, recorded in the CCTV footage captured from a house close to the park.In footage shown to the court, a man is seen walking past the camera at 19:06. The informant identified him as "Small".Four seconds later a second man, with dreadlocks and what looks like a beanie on his head, walks past. The man was holding a pair of shoes in his right hand when he walked past. He was identified as one of the accused, Thabo Nkala, 25.'I know you' A few seconds later, four more men are seen running past the camera. The informer identified one as "Brian". He could not name the fourth person, who was a man who stayed in Rhodes Park. "Je-Je" was among the group.Four minutes later, the last two men, identified as "Mdu" and "Cosmo", made their way past the camera.Sono said he was travelling in an unmarked car and when he approached &ldquo;Je-Je&rdquo;, he started shaking."When I got close to him, he was shaking and said, 'I know you'," Sono testified.According to Sono, he was known for the work he does in the area. He asked &ldquo;Je-Je&rdquo; what the problem was."He said, 'I know you are looking for me. It is for the case of Rhodes Park'," he said.Not guilty plea"Je-Je" was just his street name and the man was later identified as Admore Ndlovu, 23.Ndlovu, Nkala and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32, have pleaded not guilty to charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape and murder.They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park. They allegedly forced the women's husbands, Zukisa Kela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned.Sono had also arrested the first suspect, Nkala.The trial continues on Thursday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.