President Jacob Zuma addressed questions on the fees must fall movement, state of capture and the economy in the last question and answer session for the year. Jump to bottom President Jacob Zuma addressed questions on the Fees Must Fall movement, State of Capture and the economy in the last question and answer session for the year. He said the final report on the fees commission is expected in June 2017 and congratulated students for continuing with exams. On the State of Capture report, Zuma said there was no fairness in how it was handled and advocate Thuli Madonsela never sent questions to him prior to them meeting. Missing in Parliament was the EFF as they "do not recognise Zuma as head of state and government". As the EFF we are going to protect this Parliament from Jacob Zuma, EFF chief whip Ffloyd Shivambu said. Zuma says they didn&#39;t know the outcome, and no one knows whether they will lose or win a court case. #ZumaQandA @News24NFP&#39;s Sheik Imam asks if the legal advisers who took state capture report interdict to court will recoup legal costs. #ZumaQandA @News24&quot;This report has been treated in a very funny way. It affected me. No fairness at all.&quot; #StateCaptureReport #ZumaQandA @News24Zuma says the state capture report was a provisional report, and the accused were given an opportunity to respond. #ZumaQandA @News24He says if it was politics, it would be a different matter. &quot;That&#39;s my area,&quot; Zuma says with a smile. ANC MPs applaud. #ZumaQandA @News24Zuma says he can&#39;t give advise on legal matters to his ministers. &quot;We have state legal advisers&quot;. #ZumaQandA @News24Zuma says Madonsela never told him he was under investigation #ZumaQandAZuma says Madonsela never told him he was under investigation #ZumaQandAANC MPs booing Mmusi Maimane has he tries to address Zuma. #ZumaQandA @News24Two or three days before the meeting she said I must answer questions.Zuma says they spent four hours arguing, saying "If you wanted answers you should've sent me questions".In the process of the argument Madonsela produced questions.First she was informing, the second letter was that she was briefing me."If a journalist asks these questions it's a different matter" the intention of the Public Protector is different.I did not mislead anyone, Zuma saysZuma explains contents of letter received from advocate Thuli Madonsela.ANC MPs booing Mmusi Maimane has he tries to address Zuma. #ZumaQandA @News24Zuma says what happens in Parliament is evidence of democracy. #ZumaQandA @News24Zuma laments South Africans politicising ratings move Cape Town - The problem with South Africans is that they re politicising the decision that ratings agencies are about to make on the country s sovereign credit rating, said President Jacob Zuma in Parliament on Wednesday. Zuma was responding to a question from Steve Swart, ACDP MP, who asked the President what measures have been taken to ensure South Africa will not get a credit downgrade towards year-end. We tend to politicise the gradings, the President said. We pick and choose what we think ratings agencies will talk about. Zuma listed a number of countries that had been downgraded earlier this year. There was France in September, the UK in June, Turkey in September to junk status, Russia, Brazil and China, Zuma said. I m sure some of you here have heard for the first time that all these countries big and small have been downgraded. But here we make a big issue of it even though the ratings agencies haven t even arrived yet. The economy was run wrongly and therefore we are dealing with our history which was distorted. That is why we are dealing with problems other countries don't face.#ZumaQandA Zuma: &quot;SA has a v.peculiar history and in everything we do, this old scar shows itself&quot;Zuma says there are big countries who have been sitting below the line for a long time.South Africa is not the only country facing difficulties.We are trying to solve problems that other countries don't have to solve, education being one of them.#ZumaQandA Zuma says SA is attractive globally when it comes to investments. MVZuma says he wants to be able to promote South Africa and make it the best country to invest in. It's political and economical relations. Question 5 now, on the African Heads of Mission Conference, #ZumaQandATwo questions left, including one on State Capture court cases by Van Rooyen and Zwane #ZumaQandAZuma says he believes the efoorts they are making are working although there is an economic "slowdown"The biggest economies are all facing this.The world is faced with challenges that we are faced with the situations we are.There is no country that can say we are out of the woods in terms of the economic challenge.Zuma: Economists don&#39;t have one view. They got assumptions. Brics taken a decision to establish a rating agency from another point of view.Zuma says the only issue is that other countries don't politicise ratings agencies.BRICS as a grouping has taken a decision to establish a ratings agency from another point of view, economically.BRICS have their own point of view.Zuma: We are working to make people&#39;s lives better. A few months ago, loadshedding was a problem, now it&#39;s done #ZumaQandAZuma: We tend to politicise ratings gradings, to pick and choose what we think is a problem #zumaQandAFreedom Front Plus saying Zuma did not answer the question, on NPA charges etc and how they affected potential downgrade #ZumaQandAZuma says we tend to create a big hype.Zuma mentions countries that have been downgraded - Brazil, China and US.In South Africa our problem is we are politicising a downgrade.ACDP&#39;s Swart asks if tensions between Hawks,NPA, Min Gordhan, and PP&#39;s State Capture report could affect chances of downgrade #ZumaQandAZuma stays defiant on Gupta banks action Cape Town&nbsp; Government cannot sit by and watch banks close people s accounts willy nilly , said President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday in Parliament. He was responding to questions from MPs when he was asked to elaborate on an inter-ministerial commission which looked into the closure of the bank accounts of Oakbay Investments a company owned by the Gupta family. A defiant Zuma said the fact that South Africa s four big banks acted simultaneously could suggest there had been collusion. To any ordinary person that is not an ordinary act. It suggests there is something. They (the banks) can t act together in the same way. It gives a feeling that something is going on here. Now if you are a government you have to intervene in many things if the image of the country is put into problems. (Sic) &nbsp; Zuma says reviews by rating agencies are important for the country.It encourages us to improve, reignite growth and improve global competitiveness. Zuma: I was discussing global political landscape. I was not attacking anyone.I was tracing the history of the western and eastern countriesZuma says racists must be dealt with. &quot;They are embarrassing our country. They are doing as they please.&quot; #ZumaQandAThe ANC has called on Parliament to accelerate the implementation of the establishment of a Media Appeal Tribunal. #MediaFreedomANC MP says SA wines in European countries being taken off shelves because of slave-like conditions on WCape farms. What are you doing?Zuma on Brexit: relations with UK strong. Continue to work deepening relations. We will promote cooperation while cushioning our economyDA MPs clapping because Zuma remembered the 9 point plan today :)Zuma now answering the third question on economic diplomacy over the next 10 years #ZumaQandAZuma: Up to now we don&#39;t know. We have laws in this country. Just to willy-nilly close accounts does not look innocent #ZumaQandAZuma says as government investigations must be done and started politely by sending a team to the banks.Zuma is asked why was Minister Van Rooyen not fired.Zuma: There's nothing abnormal here. It depends on the thing that has been done. We did the right thing.What else do you need? Jump to top