A file image released by Survival International in 2012 of what they describe as being uncontacted members of a family from the Mashco-piro tribe somewhere in the southeastern Peruvian jungle. (Diego Cortijo/www.uncontactedtribes.org/www.survivalfrance.org via AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lima - Members of an isolated tribe in the Amazon rainforest have
killed a man and wounded two in a clash with another ethnic group, Peruvian
authorities said on Sunday. The
Mashco-Piro tribe, one of the last isolated peoples on Earth, apparently
attacked a group of 20 people from the Nahua tribe who ventured onto the
indigenous reserve where they live, the culture ministry said. The
Nahua, who themselves only recently entered into contact with the outside
world, were reportedly following footprints believed to have been left by
Mashco-Piro in the Kugapakori Territorial Reserve in eastern Peru. "The
culture ministry's team has coordinated the (wounded men's) transfer to the
Sepahua health centre for the necessary medical attention" after the
attack, which happened on Thursday, it said in a statement. The
ministry said it had activated its emergency protocol for such situations,
which includes measures to protect both peoples from further violence and the
Mashco-Piro from diseases that their immune systems have never been exposed to. Peruvian
authorities have raised alarm over increasingly frequent incursions by the
Mashco-Piro into communities near their territory. In May
2015, Mashco-Piro natives killed a man from the Shipetiari indigenous group
with an arrow after invading his land to carry off food. In
December 2014, about 200 Mashco-Piro attacked two small villages with bows and
arrows, killing residents' livestock and carting off food, pots, pans, machetes
and rope. Encroachments
on the Amazon rainforest by illegal loggers and drug traffickers may be causing
the Mashco-Piro to venture beyond their traditional territory, authorities say. Peru is
home to more than 50 indigenous groups. About 15 of them remain isolated from
the outside world, according to indigenous rights group Survival International. Encroachments on the Amazon rainforest by illegal loggers and drug
traffickers may be causing the Mashco-Piro to venture beyond their traditional
territory, authorities say. Peru is
home to more than 50 indigenous groups. About 15 of them remain isolated from
the outside world, according to indigenous rights group Survival International. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  