Hannes Kruger, Netwerk24School desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - An 8-year-old girl who was forced to take her shirt off in front of her Grade 2 class because it was not the regulation uniform is going to be transferred to another school. There have also been several offers from members of the public to pay for her school fees and uniform.&nbsp; Sophia Welz, who employs the girl's mother, said four people had offered to help after reading about the incident on Netwerk24."We have identified three possible schools. All we have to do now is evaluate the final costs and sustainability of each of them," she told Netwerk24.&nbsp;The little girl will not be going back to the Johannesburg school, where she was humiliated because she was not wearing the prescribed school shirt.Donald Gall is one of those who want to help. "It makes no sense to subject a child to such trauma. I understand what the implications could be."&nbsp;He and his business partner both have children and they wouldn't like that to happen to any of them. School to be investigated&nbsp;"We haven't helped yet, but intend to ensure that the child will never have to worry about money when it comes to her education. She should have a bright future," said Gall.The girl's mother said the teacher had told her classmates to laugh at her. "It was especially the boys who laughed at her after school," she said.&nbsp;The Gauteng education department is to investigate the school in the Johannesburg CBD.The mother, a single parent, said she could not afford the prescribed shirt at the time so she had her daughter put on a different shirt. She said her child was also refused entry to the school a week ago because of unpaid school fees.Welz said she was overwhelmed by the public's reaction."I hope she has many beautiful experiences that she can look forward to at her new school. She is loving and very smart and she just deserves the best," said Welz.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.