Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A clearly-shaky President Robert Mugabe has told President Jacob Zuma: "We are happy you are still in one piece in spite of what the papers are writing every day."News24 Correspondent Harare &ndash; President Jacob Zuma has made a speech at the opening of a Bi-National Commission in Harare.Fresh from the #StateCaptureReport (which he studiously avoided any mention of) Zuma bravely affirmed: "Not all is gloom and doom."Here are some key points from a fairly-lacklustre speech:Drought has hit southern Africa hard"Our region has been hard-hit by El Nino," Zuma said. He said the drought had "eroded decades of hard-won developmental gains, putting great strain on the fiscus of most governments." No word on how corruption might have also imposed a strain.We're pleased about the appointment of a new UN secretary general&nbsp;And the fact that the new BRICS development bank is establishing its Africa regional centre in Johannesburg. Old news.&nbsp;Mugabe's time as chair of the AU in 2015 was very positiveSaid Zuma: "Your contribution as chair of the post... has put the region and the continent on a different platform of economic and political stability." Excuse me?Zuma went even further, saying Zimbabwe had been "instrumental towards realising the dream of a prosperous African continent."We need to focus on economic co-operationIf so, why didn't a business forum bringing together representatives from Zimbabwe and South Africa manage to make it today? Zuma did not mention this but Mugabe was clearly disappointed.Business communities "stand ready to play their part" in deepening co-operation between South Africa and ZimbabweThis is where the speech gets interesting. Zuma said the business communities would play their part if the governments "create conducive environments for ease of doing business".&nbsp;OK, so he didn't mention bond notes, the SI 64 of 2016 ban on many SA imports and indigenisation. In fact Zuma went straight on to point to the need for a one-stop border post at Beitbridge, a recurring topic in these talks.&nbsp;But he said the need for conducive environments was "not limited" to that.&nbsp;He also made a fleeting reference to "policy certainty".&nbsp;Was this a friendly bit of brother-to-brother advice in the light of Zimbabwe's looming economic meltdown?24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.