Mandla MahasheHe believes that music does not need any translation and as a result he has mesmerised crowds from the Cape Flats, Swaziland and even the UK. Denzil Erasmus, 34, is a Mitchell plain born saxophonist who has just released his debut album of popular gospel songs. The leading single is his rendition of Sipho Makhabane s You Are Holy which has been receiving huge airplay on radio, according to him. Erasmus is a saxophonist on Makhabane s band and says that it was the leader who motivated him about finally releasing his solo project titled Journey of Grace. Erasmus began his voyage into the music industry 15 years ago when he taught himself the saxophone after seeing his pastor play the instrument. His mother bought him one and he started learning to play, leading him to play as a musician in his congregation in Lentegeur. I then went on to perform at corporate events and then I went to Jo'burg where I performed in various music events and festivals. It is there where I met Big Fish (Makhabane) and performed with him and this is where we realised how much people loved hearing their beloved gospel song via the saxophone, said Erasmus. He said that he was pleasantly surprised to see that people of all races loved his rendition as there was now no language barrier. Music transcends all borders and its beautiful that I can go to a community whose language that I cannot speak, perform their favourite songs and they love it, that is powerful, he expanded. His 14 track album is available at stores and has original compositions which he hopes to be firm favourite. Erasmus says that he is hoping that his story would a be source of inspiration to youngsters from troubled neighbourhoods. You may come from Khayelitsha or Mitchell s Plain but that should not determined how far you go in life. Use your talent to ignore all the bad things that are happening and focus on improving your own life, he said. He said that the video for the lead song off the album is going to be released this week. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.