Jenna Etheridge, News24The over 18s open pillow fight with tens of Capetonians participating to raise funds for a range of charities. (Erin Bates / News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; While Cape Town's signature wind continued its bluster on Saturday, some residents chose some wacky ways to support charity and have plenty of fun in the process. On the one side of the city, near the Cape Town Stadium, around 15 000 people prepared to take part in the Capitec Bank 2016 Color Run.The crowd donned white shirts, exotic accessories and running shoes in anticipation of being showered with an assortment of coloured powders over a 5km stretch. Some wore wigs and glasses to prevent the corn starch powder from penetrating their hair and eyes. Those with lightly-coloured locks were warned to be particularly careful. Those in the know oiled their hair beforehand to help the colour wash out.&nbsp;Organisers also suggested that participants cover their car seats with bin bags or towels to save vehicles "from looking like a unicorn had a party in it".The colour run's Rainbow Tour spokesperson Francois Viviers said the event was about celebrating diversity and bringing the community together.Cape Town's Great Pillow Fight on Saturday included a performance by Jimmy Nevis and several charity stalls selling hard-boiled sweets, boerewors rolls and ice-cream. (Erin Bates / News24)He said R10 of every ticket would be donated to the Parkview Primary School in Atlantis. On the other side of town, in Crawford, around 300 people indulged in a dose of childhood nostalgia with The Great Pillow Fight. Young and old entered the ring in two age-appropriate fights to demonstrate their battle skills, said spokesperson Kim Crowie.They used bought and handmade pillows that were donated by different parties.The fight was monitored and no injuries were reported. &nbsp;Cowie said they were still calculating whether they had reached their goal of raising R250 000 for five charities.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.