Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes park accused appear in court. (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the Rhodes Park accused said in his confession that the two men who were killed in Kensington in 2015 were still alive when he left the park. The two men who stayed behind after the robbery, however, undressed the men and forced them into the water, Admore Ndlovu, 23, said in his confession. Lieutenant Colonel Lilian Ndlovu read his statement to the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge on Thursday afternoon.&nbsp; This comes after a trial within a trial was held to decide the admissibility of his confession.&nbsp; Judge Papi Masopa ruled that his confession was made freely and that he was of sober mind.&nbsp; Ndlovu said he and a group of friends planned to rob people at Rhodes Park as they sat outside a shop in Bezuidenhout Street, Yeoville, sometime in 2015. He could not remember the exact date.Not guilty pleaHe was in the company of Mdu, Stanley, Brian, Small, Cosmo, Rasta and one man they met at Rhodes Park with the name Bigshow. These were their street names. Police later identified Mdu as Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32, and Rasta as Thabo Nkala, 25. Ndlovu, Nkala and Lawrence are on trial on charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape and murder. They pleaded not guilty. They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park in Kensington on the evening of Saturday, October 17, 2015. Ndlovu said they entered the park at around 16:00 and Lawrence had two toy guns with him. They split into two groups, one group went right and one went to the left side of the dam.Lawrence then pointed the toy gun at two black couples and ordered them to lie down. "They told us that they had nothing on them. One of the females said a prayer and Small assured them that we would leave them and they should stop praying."Panties cut with knifeLawrence removed the men's trousers. Brian and Rasta each took a pair of trousers and shoes. "Mdu [Lawrence] ordered the two males to jump into the water. The two men got inside the dam and stood." Ndlovu said Cosmo cut the panties of the two women with a knife.&nbsp; "Stanley suggested that we must leave the four people or victims. Mdu [Lawrence] then refused." Ndlovu, Stanley, Small, Rasta, Brian and Bigshow left the park and went to Yeoville where they waited for an hour and 30 minutes for Cosmo and Lawrence to return. When they asked Lawrence what they did with the four people he told them that they let them go. Ndlovu said the following day he was confronted by residents in Yeoville who asked him why Lawrence took his jacket and fled after seeing the incident on the news. "I told them it was the people Mdu [Lawrence] put into the water who passed away."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.