Amanda Khoza, News24Taxi crash. (Supplied by ER24, file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A KwaZulu-Natal bus driver has described how he heard a woman's harrowing screams for help after she was trapped in a taxi which had crashed into the bus he was driving.Nkosinathi Dlamini, 55, from Mthunzini, northern KwaZulu-Natal, said every time he closes his eyes, the image of the woman - a passenger in the red minibus taxi - keeps coming back. Six people died in the accident.&ldquo;Please get me out of the taxi, please get me out of the taxi,&rdquo; the woman repeatedly pleaded in her dying moments, Dlamini said.He said her screams lasted for about 45 minutes before she died.Dlamini said he was driving a bus from Empangeni to Emanyameni, Mthunzini, at around 13:40 and carrying between 25 to 30 passengers when the accident occurred.&lsquo;Came from nowhere&rsquo;READ: Three die in taxi, truck crashWhen the driver with more than 20 years&rsquo; experience was approaching Mthunzini, a red minibus &ldquo;came from nowhere&rdquo;.&ldquo;It was overtaking another vehicle on a bend. The driver lost control after overtaking and crashed straight into the bus.&rdquo;Dlamini said when he saw the oncoming vehicle he slammed the breaks.&ldquo;I was driving in the slow lane and I could see that he lost control of the taxi.&rdquo;After the taxi came to a standstill Dlamini helped some of his passengers out of the bus.&ldquo;I then saw that the taxi had gone under the bus. The driver and the one passenger in the front seat were both dead and two passengers that were sitting on the next row were also dead.&ldquo;There was a young woman who was still alive and she was screaming for help. She cried and cried for help but there was nothing that we could do for her, she was trapped in the taxi under the bus.&rdquo;Dlamini said paramedics arrived at the scene more than an hour later but the woman had already died.&ldquo;We watched and listened to her cry for help repeatedly.&rdquo;Dlamini said he had never been involved in an accident in his entire career.&ldquo;I have never seen anything like that. People were in pieces.&rdquo;He said he had taken time off work to deal with the trauma.&ldquo;I am only driving my car because I have to. I shake when I have to drive.&rdquo;Dlamini sent his condolences to the families of the six deceased passengers.Department of Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane confirmed that the number of deaths had risen from five to six.He said MEC Mxolisi Kaunda was expected to meet with the families on Tuesday afternoon then head to inspect the accident scene and the two vehicles involved in the accident. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.