Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump during a meeting with local farmers at Bedners Farm Fresh Market in Boynton Beach, Florida. (Evan Vucci, AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Several African leaders on Wednesday congratulated Donald Trump following his victory in the just ended US elections.In a closely contested election,&nbsp;Trump was declared victorious, after capturing Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes, putting him over the 270 threshold.Voters eager to shake up the nation's political establishment picked the celebrity businessman to become the nation's 45th president.He upset Democrats presidential hopeful Hilary Clinton, who would have become the first woman to serve in the Oval Office.Most of the African leaders said they were looking forward to working with the incoming Trump.&nbsp;See the tweets below.President Jacob Zuma was among the first leaders from the continent to congratulate him. &nbsp;Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni also tweeted that he was looking forward to working with the multi-billionaire. Meanwhile, according to Daily Monitor, Museveni said in a statement that his country's relations with the US would continue."I congratulate Mr Trump on his election as the President of the United States of America. Elections in the US or any country are a matter for the people of that country. Our relationship with the United States will continue regardless of which leader or party is leading. I congratulate Mr Trump once again and look forward to working with him as we have been working with the other leaders before him," Museveni. Another African leader who congratulated Trump was Tanzania's president John Magafuli. Egyptian President Fattah al-Sisi, Ghana&rsquo;s president John Mahama also added to the many voices of African leaders who congratulated Trump.Outgoing US president Barak Obama&rsquo;s brother was also among the many Africans who expressed their salutations to Trump. Malik Obama wrote on his Twitter account that his two children had died while his brother Barack was US president, but Barack never even bothered to send him any messages of support.In a series of Tweets Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyata said that US citizens had spoken and had "spoken clearly".&nbsp;Just days after Nigerian expressed its concerns over the possible victory of Trump, Nigerian leader Muhammadu Buharu also congratulated him saying he was looking forward to working with him.&nbsp;&nbsp;Kenya congratulates Mr Trump for his victorious campaign, and his main opponent, Mrs Hillary Clinton, for her valiant effort.&mdash; Uhuru Kenyatta (@UKenyatta) November 9, 2016I congratulate @realDonaldTrump upon his election as USA president. I look forward to working with him like I've done with his predecessors.&mdash; Yoweri K Museveni (@KagutaMuseveni) November 9, 2016President Zuma looks forward to working with President-elect Trump to build on the strong relations that exists between SA and USA. #Trump&mdash; South African Gov (@GovernmentZA) November 9, 2016Congratulations President-elect Donald J. Trump.&mdash; John Dramani Mahama (@JDMahama) November 9, 2016My two children died while my brother was President; not even simple condolence. Humiliated and demeaned. God Bless!&mdash; Malik Obama (@ObamaMalik) November 9, 2016On behalf of the Govt and people of Nigeria, I congratulate President-elect @realDonaldTrump on his victory in the US presidential election.&mdash; Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) November 9, 2016 On behalf of the Govt and people of Nigeria, I congratulate President-elect @realDonaldTrump on his victory in the US presidential election.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.