Yvonne Silaule, News24 correspondent (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bushbuckridge – Bushbuckridge’s mathematics and physical science guru will not be producing straight As from his house any longer. After teaching the two subjects from his home for the past 27 years, Caltex will help Jerry Mbowane, 58, run his classes in a proper school environment. He would get chairs, desks, stationery and rent for classrooms, Arnold Leroux, the company’s financial and logistics director said. They read about Mbowane’s achievements in a newspaper and were moved by his story. "When we saw Mbowane’s successful story with his mathematics and physical science programme, we knew he is the best person to partner with as we are passionate about investing in the community," Leroux said. Mbowane’s Caltex Mathematics and Physical Science Academy would start in January 2017, on a renewable contract. 'Figures don't lie' An ecstatic Mbowane said that he was happy that someone had recognised his efforts. He vowed to do better and improve the number of distinctions his pupils got. While he had previously only taught Grade 11 and 12, the academy would start from Grade 8. "My motto is that figures don’t lie unless wrongly manipulated. Maths is simple and easy if you understand its basics," he explained. With this philosophy, Mbowane has produced doctors, engineers, and lecturers. With the two subjects as tools, even the poorest child’s fortunes could be transformed. "It is easy to get a bursary when you have good results in mathematics and physical science." After all the years of teaching in his home and under the tree in his front yard, his enthusiasm had not waned. "I will teach until my maker calls me," he said. One of Mbowane’s protégés, gynaecologist Ronald Mnisi, said he knew how to simplify maths and make it easy to understand. "I have been keeping record of his project results over the years and I’ve now enrolled my own sister with him," he said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  