Grace Mugabe. File: AFP Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Outsiders might not understand how someone who led his country s downfall from breadbasket to basket case has remained in the presidency for so many years, writes Beverly L Peters.News24 Correspondent Could it be that First Lady Grace Mugabe is feeling the pinch?She appeared at a university graduation in Harare at the weekend in the same dress she wore to her husband's 92nd birthday party in Masvingo (it'll soon be his 93rd).Whatever you think of her political ambitions, Grace's dressing tastes are closely watched in Zimbabwe. This sartorial recycling could get the nod from cash-starved locals.&nbsp;Here are five stories you might have missed from Zimbabwe:The Handkerchief Faction:&nbsp;Stand aside G40, Lacoste and the like: here's the Handkerchief Faction! News that another prophet - Malawi's Shepherd Bushiri - has waded into Zanu-PF's factional wars with a prophecy that the state security minister had a "crown" coming his way has sparked interest. Bushiri is reported to have given little-talked-about Kembo Mohadi a handkerchief and told him to use it to pray, according to the&nbsp;zambianobserver.com. Mugabe was not amused, apparently. But Zimbabweans are going to be on the lookout for white hankies from now on. If only for a laugh...Party dress, reloaded: Cap sleeves, white flower print on a black background: Grace Mugabe was wearing this demure number when that infamous shushing pic (the one where she's telling the president off - was snapped. Might she have had the fuchsia trim round the sleeves altered?Cars for the boys: No recycling going on here.&nbsp;TeamZANU-PFLive posted pictures of Mugabe handing out brand new cars to war veterans last week.The Herald later reported that the 13 cars went to the war veterans ministry (that'll be the one no longer headed by Grace critic Chris Mutsvangwa). Permanent secretary Walter Tapfumaneyi said vets were "elated". Fine - but what about Zimbabwe's cash-starved hospitals?First pics of cute baby hyena: Harry, maybe? Zimbabwe animal sanctuary Wild is Life hasn't decided for sure on a name to give to the hyena cub rescued along with 10 adults just as they were about to be shipped off to China,&nbsp;according to this FB post.&nbsp;(News24 reported on the hyena interception here)Who are the bond notes actually FOR?: Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe chief John Mangudya keeps playing down bond notes. Locals will likely only come across them as change in supermarkets, he says, insisting the new notes are only for exporters. So why in the ad campaign that's taking so much space in the local press are we seeing photos of elderly couples and trendy teenagers? The RBZ has splashed 3.2 million US on this campaign, according to&nbsp;newzimbabwe.com&nbsp;(Couldn't this have paid some teachers' bonuses?)Steve Hanke, the professor who monitored Zimbabwe's last currency crisis tweeted&nbsp;on Sunday&nbsp;that the bond notes were a "poison" being put into the economy.In other words: Be afraid...24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.