Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes park accused appear in court. (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the Rhodes Park accused said in his confession that they raped and robbed two couples and killed the men in Kensington in 2015, the High Court in Palm Ridge heard on Tuesday.The two men who stayed behind after the robbery, committed the murder and rape, Thabo Nkala, 25, said in his confession.Lieutenant-Colonel Nonkululeko Mkwebula read it to the court.Nkala phoned a friend called &ldquo;Small&rdquo; in August 2015, after he had been released from jail, where he had served a two-year sentence. He asked him if he could help him with money and clothes. No mention was made of the reason for Nkala&rsquo;s stay in jail.Small introduced Nkala to &ldquo;Stanley&rdquo;, &ldquo;Brian&rdquo;, &ldquo;JeJe&rdquo;, and &ldquo;Mdu&rdquo; while they were drinking beer. They told him their job was to commit robberies, normally at Rhodes Park.These were their street names. Police later identified Mdu as Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32, and Jeje as Admore Ndlovu, 23.Nkala, Ndlovu, and Lawrence are on trial on charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder. They have pleaded not guilty.PlanREAD: Court rules on Rhodes Park murder accused confessionThey were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park, in Kensington, on the evening of Saturday, October 17 2015.They allegedly forced the women&rsquo;s husbands, Zukisa Khela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned.Nkala said in his confession that on Saturday, October 17, they drank brandy in front of a hair salon in Bezuidenhout Street, Yeoville, before walking going to Rhodes Park, about 5km away.He was in the company of Mdu, Small, Jeje, and two other men known as Brian and Cosmo. They entered Rhodes Park at 17:30.&ldquo;There were a lot of African people drinking and enjoying themselves. We waited for them to leave,&rdquo; it read.Nkala said it was dark when they approached two couples in the park around 18:30.One of them had a knife. They were later joined by an African male who stayed next to the dam.Mdu and Jeje walked in front.&ldquo;Mdu pointed them with a firearm and we all rushed to them. The couples were ordered to lie down.&rdquo;Ring soldThey demanded cellphones and money.Small took one Nokia Asha and one of the women gave them a gold ring. The other couple said they had left their valuables at home.Nkala said he took one pair of men&rsquo;s formal shoes and Brian took the second man&rsquo;s pair. He later left the shoes at a nearby park after he realised they were old.The group left, and only Mdu and Cosmo stayed behind. The two joined the others in Yeoville about 20 minutes later.Mdu and Small sold the cellphone and gold ring at a gold exchange shop in Rocky Street. Mdu gave Cosmo and Jeje R50 each. He and Brian left without getting any money.Nkala said he got a call from Small on October 18 2015, asking him to come to his house after seeing a report of the crime on the news. Small then called Cosmo.According to Cosmo, Mdu told the two men to get into the dam. Mdu gave Cosmo his gun and took Cosmo&rsquo;s knife and raped one of the women. The other one ran away, Nkala said.Three days later, Small asked Mdu what they had done. Mdu replied that they told the two men to get into the water and that he and Cosmo raped the two women.&ldquo;We did not ask in detail,&rdquo; Nkala said.The trial continues on Thursday.WATCH the video:24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.