Mpho Raborife, News24Zukisa Kela's uncle Sibongile Kela talking to reporters at the scene of his nephew's murder. (Mpho Raborife, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The trial of three men accused of raping two women and killing their husbands in Rhodes Park came to an unexpected halt on Monday morning after one of the accused fell ill.Admore Ndlovu&rsquo;s lawyer, Robert Xaba, told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge that his client was having difficulty breathing and had chest pains. He asked the court to postpone proceedings until Tuesday so he could see a doctor.&ldquo;He is not feeling well. He should get urgent medical attention,&rdquo; Xaba said. The 23-year-old alleged killer and rapist sat in the dock looking at the floor, coughing and breathing heavily. He was wearing a grey hoodie and blue jeans.READ: Tears as police officer describes Rhodes Park murderXaba said his last consultation with medical staff at the Johannesburg Central prison was last Monday. They had given him medication and did tests, suspecting he may suffer from asthma.Ndlovu, Thabo Nkala, 25, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32, have been charged with robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder. They have pleaded not guilty.They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park, in Kensington, on the evening of Saturday, October 17 2015.The four were reportedly forced to lie on the ground. A knife was used to cut off the panties of both women before they were raped.Their husbands, Zukisa Khela and Sizwe Tyeke, were forced to strip before they were bundled into the lake, where they drowned.The gang allegedly stole their clothes, jewellery, and cellphones. Police divers found the bodies.Judge Papi Masopa agreed to postpone the matter to Tuesday and ordered that Ndlovu be taken back to prison to see a doctor immediately. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.