Thulani Gqirana, News24Minister of Intelligence David Mahlobo seen here with beauty therapist Wei Chelsea from the Mpumalanga spa owned by self-proclaimed rhino horn smuggler Guan Jiang Guang. (Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Rhino horn smuggler Guan Jiang Guang appears in an Al Jazeera documentary calling Intelligence Minister David Mahlobo his friend.WATCHCape Town - State Security Minister David Mahlobo is not going to resign, he told Parliament on Wednesday. The minister has been in the spotlight for his alleged connection to a known rhino horn trafficker, Guan Jiang Guan.He was answering questions in the National Assembly when he was asked if he was willing to resign from his job until the cloud hanging over his head was dealt with.Agang MP Molapi Plouamma asked Mahlobo if he thought he was a threat to security and would he consider taking special leave.&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t help it, when I look at you, I see a rhino being hacked to death,&rdquo; Plouamma said.Mahlobo said the allegations against him were made without a shred of evidence.&ldquo;I have not been charged, I am not a suspect,&rdquo; he said.He was not above the law, he said, and would subject himself to it and the truth will come out.&ldquo;I am not going to resign. Lies have short legs. Very soon, the truth will come out. If you think you have evidence, don&rsquo;t be a conspirator, please bring it so we can bring the matter to finality,&rdquo; he said.The minister was heckled over his visit to a massage parlour, with MPs telling him that these were not "massage parlour questions". Mcebo Dlamini Mahlobo also denied that student activist Mcebo Dlamini has ever been to his house.&ldquo;Mcebo Dlamini has never been to my house. That meeting never took place,&rdquo; the minister said on Wednesday.Democratic Alliance MP Belinda Bozzoli raised the question of the reported meetings between the minister and Dlamini.This follows reports in the Mail and Guardian that Mahlobo had admitted to having Dlamini at his house while speaking at a panel discussion hosted by the Institute for Security Studies.&ldquo;I happen to know Mcebo. He has been to my house several times,&rdquo; he said, according to the Mail and Guardian.But on Wednesday, the minister said the story should not be quoted as fact.It was not true, he said. WATCH this video:24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.