Molly Green, Netwerk24Gwen Lourens and Tyrus Jenneke (Molly Green, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein - The kindness of a police officer enabled a Welkom guest house owner to recover in hospital in Bloemfontein for more than three weeks, without her business taking a knock.About six weeks ago, Gwen Lourens, 79, fell and broke a bone in her hip. She lay on the cold paving in her garden for about three hours, calling for help.When Lieutenant-Colonel Tyrus Jenneke saw her, he immediately went to her rescue.&ldquo;I was very cold, but I knew someone would eventually hear my cries for help,&rdquo; Lourens told Netwerk24.She had a hip replacement six months before the fall and thought it was just dislocated.Another crisisJenneke, a training officer at the police college in Thabong, had stayed in Lourens&rsquo;s guest house for two months after he was transferred from Graaff-Reinet to Welkom.After finding the injured Lourens, Jenneke phoned a neighbour, Brian Schroeder, who works at Mediclinic Welkom. An ambulance was called and Lourens was taken to hospital.X-rays showed the bone was broken.Lourens said she fell after her foot got caught on a stone. Her head barely missed another big stone. She underwent an operation in Bloemfontein and was in a step-down facility in the city for another two weeks for physiotherapy.&ldquo;Tyrus said I didn&rsquo;t have to worry about anything. He took over the running of the guest house and phoned me every day to keep me up to speed. He handled the finances, bought groceries and electricity and made sure everything was clean and tidy. He even gave the cleaners pointers and paid them every day,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;In addition to that, he dealt with the arrival and departure of guests. The garden and pot plants were also watered regularly.&rdquo;He averted another crisis when a water pipe burst.&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t believe that there are people like him left in our country.&rdquo;Jenneke has moved into his own home, but regularly visits Lourens at her guest house.Last weekend, when Lourens was in Pretoria, he stopped by to see if everything was running smoothly.&ldquo;He is like a son to me,&rdquo; Lourens gushed.When she tried paying him for the trouble he&rsquo;d gone to, he was offended. He said it would leave a bitter taste in his mouth after the satisfaction he&rsquo;d got from helping her. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.