Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump during a meeting with local farmers at Bedners Farm Fresh Market in Boynton Beach, Florida. (Evan Vucci, AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has blasted Somali refugees, saying that they are "bringing extremist views" to the US. According to BBC, Trump, who was speaking during his last round of campaigning in Minnesota, vowed that his administration would not allow any refugees "without the support and consent of local communities".Are you following the US Election? Where in SA will you be watching? Who do you want to win? Send us your thoughts!For all the latest updates on the US 2016 Election, head over to our special report page.&nbsp;We will be bringing you live updates throughout the night, straight into results, on 8 November."How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are they to allow this to happen? Here in Minnesota you have seen first-hand the problems with faulty refugee vetting with large numbers of Somali refugees coming into your state without your knowledge. Without your support or approval," said the property mogul.Watch the video below as Trump speak&nbsp;The bruising and unpredictable race that concludes on November 8 has gripped the world and roiled international markets, as Americans decide whether to elect their first female commander in chief or a billionaire real estate tycoon whose political inexperience is seen by some as an asset and others a liability.According to an earlier News24 report, Nigerian prophet TB Joshua of the Synagogue Church of nations (SCOAN) predicted that Hillary Clinton will win the election in a "narrow victory". He made the disclosure while speaking to a packed congregation at the SCOAN on Sunday.TB Joshua prophesied that the female candidate would win the coveted position and shared his "vision" on his Facebook page, which is followed by over 2.5 million people."Ten days ago, I saw the new president of America with a narrow win," said TB Joshua.&nbsp;He, however, also lauded Trump: "I want to salute the opposition &ndash; a very strong man and courageous."He is my friend because he is very, very courageous. Challenges don't mean anything to him. The more they abuse him, the more he comes out to talk and smile.".@realDonaldTrump says Minnesota "has suffered enough" due to Somali refugees https://t.co/c7leuCE9uR https://t.co/MtV9bhhahn 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.