Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes Park in Kensington, Johannesburg. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the men accused of raping two women and killing their husbands in Rhodes Park entered South Africa illegally, the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge heard on Monday. Thabo Nkala, 25, told the court that he had been in South Africa since 2007.Judge Papi Masopa asked how him how he had entered the country.&ldquo;I entered the country illegally,&rdquo; he said. He was being cross-examined by prosecutor Mutuwa Nenghovhela.Nkala, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32, are on trial on charges of&nbsp;robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder.&nbsp;They pleaded not guilty. They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park, in Kensington, on the evening of Saturday, October 17 last year. They allegedly forced the women&rsquo;s husbands, Zukisa Khela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned.Nkala claimed police officers pepper-sprayed and assaulted him after his arrest.He looked meek and often spoke softly. Four officers arrested him, he said. He said three of them were called Howard, BJ, and Sona.&nbsp;&ldquo;Constable Sona asked me if I was willing to do whatever they tell me to do or am going to give them problems,&rdquo; he said.They said he was being disrespectful and &ldquo;tubed&rdquo; him. This involved having a piece of tyre tube covered in pepper spray put over his face, in a bid to suffocate him.He then agreed to co-operate. Nkala said they took him to Rhodes Park on November 1, where he was instructed to point out certain areas.Nenghovhela said he never had visible injuries because he was not assaulted. Nkala said the injuries were internal.The trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.