On Sunday, police arrested three men for the illegal possession of a firearm, while picking up another 9mm pistol in Storms River Road later that evening. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories There has been a flare up in the number of shooting incidents in Manenberg over the weekend.Two men, aged 17 and 24, were arrested by Metro Police for the illegal possession of a firearm yesterday.According to Manenberg police spokesperson Captain Ian Bennett, the area has been saturated with additional forces, which include Metro Police, due to ongoing gang violence. This is to increase policing visibility and ensure the safety of the community through crime prevention strategies such as stop and searches, says Bennett.He says Metro Police officers who were on patrol turned into Red River Road just as two men started to shoot.The suspects then ran straight into the Metro Police s K9 Unit while they were firing shots in the opposite direction.The suspects were cornered as they tried to throw the firearm away. They were arrested and had a 9mm pistol with five rounds of ammunition confiscated.In another shooting incident on Sunday, police arrested three men for the possession of a firearm.During patrols, police followed up information received of a suspicious person in Cam Street. They found a firearm outside the room window where the three men were found. All of them were brought into custody for questioning while the firearm was sent for ballistic testing.Later on Sunday, police patrolling Storms River Road heard gunshots and located a group of men on the street corner.The group tried to flee on foot as the police approached them, dropping a pistol in the process.It was found that the 9mm pistol had its serial number filed off and was subsequently sent for ballistic testing. Any information leading to the successful confiscation of firearm or ammunition will be financially rewarded, says Bennett. V Anyone with information regarding illegal firearms and ammunition can contact Manenberg police on 021 699 9400 or CrimeStop on 0860 010 111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.