Tammy Petersen, News24 Nigel Plaatjies (Paarl Post, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - An initial police statement accredited to murder
accused Nigel Plaatjies was a story compiled by the authorities without him
knowing what it contained, the once promising athlete told the Wellington
Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. The
19-year-old, accused of murdering Afrikaans author Winnie Rust in her Uitsig
home on May 11, testified that the police had fabricated parts of his statement
and that he hadn't been given the opportunity to read it before he signed. He also,
however, admitted to lying to the police about his whereabouts on the day of
the murder, saying he had been scared that his uncle and co-accused, Johannes
Plaatjies, would hurt his family. This is
the teenager's second attempt at bail. In June, Magistrate Alvin Saptoe ruled that the State had a strong prima
facie case against both suspects. While
neither gave oral evidence in their first attempt, last month Nigel testified
that he walked in on the robbery. At the
start of his second bid for bail, Nigel told the court he had been forced to
take part in the robbery which resulted in the murder of Rust. The author had
been financially supporting the New Rest teen
since childhood. Rings
stolen from Rust's hands Nigel
said he had had an appointment with Rust to discuss the matter of her
financially assisting him to get his driver's licence. She had been paying for
Nigel's sports activities and school fees since he was in Grade 7 and the
athletics star regularly visited her home. Nigel's
mother works for Rust's daughter. He said
four armed men, including his uncle, were in the house stealing. He was
allegedly forced to take part out of fear for his life and the safety of his
family. Laptops,
a handbag, bank cards and a cellphone were taken. Rings were stolen from Rust's
hands. He
claimed he was forced to accompany the gang in a taxi, was made to withdraw
money from her accounts and make purchases on her store accounts. But on
Tuesday the court heard that a neighbour denied seeing a taxi parked near the
house that day. Version
of events questioned Nigel
said Johannes threatened to harm his family should he not comply and allegedly
forced him to take R1 200, a cellphone, shoes and clothes in a bid to buy his
silence. During
bail proceedings in June investigating officer Cornelius de Lange told the
court that Nigel denied being at the author's home on the day of her murder
until a witness insisted that they had seen him there. According
to the State, Nigel's statement made to police said Johannes forced him to help
him with a robbery. This as he apparently owed a drug dealer money. Nigel
was ostensibly supposed to visit Rust, where after Johannes would rob the two
at the house. Prosecutor
Mornay Julius questioned Nigel's version of events, saying he had lied to the
police at the time and was now lying to the court. Nigel,
at times in tears, denied this. He insisted that the police refused to believe
his version of events, dismissing it as "kak [shit]". No prior
convictions When
asked why he had not given his current version of events initially, he said he
had been advised by his previous lawyer to not to testify on the merits of the
case. Julius
countered that Nigel was blaming everyone from the police to his previous
lawyer. He put it to him that he had listened to the State's case in his first
bail application and had spent months fabricating a story to line up with the
police's evidence against him. Nigel, in turn, insisted he was now telling
the truth - something he was too afraid to do at first. He has
no prior convictions. Johannes had convictions for a string of crimes,
including one for housebreaking, eight for theft, two for assault and two for
drunk driving. Rust's
husband Dr Manie Rust, 87, who is hard of hearing and had been sleeping
upstairs during the robbery, found her body when he was awoken by the bell at
the gate ringing at 15:30. She was on the kitchen floor and had injuries to her
face. She had been strangled and her hands and feet were bound. Nigel
was arrested two days after Rust's murder. His fingerprints were found on a
table next to the 77-year-old's body. Johannes,
34, was arrested the following Sunday. Nigel pleaded not guilty to armed
robbery and murder. Johannes is yet to plead. Proceedings
resume on Monday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  