Teboho.SetenaBetty Buthelezi Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The Hawks in the Free State and the Jeppestown detectives in Gau-teng are yet to make a breakthrough in the human trafficking case in which three women from Qwaqwa were apparently captured and forced to work as prostitutes. The three women, whose identities are not known, have been missing since May. The pimp is known as Betty Buthelezi. She reportedly tricked the victims into forced prostitution after falsely recruiting them for employment as waitresses at a restaurant in Johannesburg. The police are still searching for Buthelezi and the three victims, who are reported to be strangers to one another. Their ordeal became public when a fourth victim reported their forced prostitution to the police after escaping from the place the traffickers kept the women captive in Jeppestown. Capt. S fiso Nyakane, spokesperson of the Hawks in the Free State, said investigations to trace the three victims and Buthelezi were underway. He said to date no one in the greater Qwaqwa had reported cases of missing persons. This was after a widespread appeal was made to the public, for people whose daughters were missing and who at that stage still did not know their whereabouts, to report to the nearest police station or phone the investigators. We appeal to the community of Qwaqwa to come forward, said Nyakane. He said the initial breakthrough was the arrest of three Nigerian men in connection with forced prostitution. Nayaka said the woman who managed to escape was unable to give details about the other missing women and of Buthelezi. This complicates investigations.Express has reliably learnt that three men are still in custody after they were denied bail, and that they are expected back in court in Jeppestown, facing charges relating to human trafficking. Two of the Nigerians were reportedly legal in South Africa, while the third suspect was illegal and has no proper documentation.Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Buthelezi, as well as the families of the three missing women, should call WO Adriaan Jordan on 051-407-3634 or 082-554-1796 during office hours.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.