SAP graduates celebrate after completing their course. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Nolubabalo Qokoqa from Khayelitsha is one of the SAP Skills for Africa graduates who is now permanently employed by the City of Cape Town. While her two loves, singing and mathematics, may seem like a strange combination, she believes the two do in fact gel well together. After completing the SAP utilities module, Nolubabalo Qokoqa now works in the City s Enterprise Resource Planning section as a business intelligence analyst. She is one of 15 graduates who were employed by the city after obtaining highly sought-after SAP qualifications through the Western Cape Skills for Africa training programme. Nolubabalo was born and raised in Makhaza and has fond memories of living, growing up and going to school there. She attended the Nkazimlo Primary School and completed her senior schooling at the Harry Gwala Senior School.While the thought of studying maths may be daunting to most of us, Nolubabalo tackled it head-on. She studied mathematical sciences as an undergraduate at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology and added computer science to her list of courses. She went on to tackle even more mathematics at the University of Stellenbosch during her post-graduate year. I love singing as it helps me to de-stress and take the edge off after studying maths for a number of hours. Mathematics has certainly opened doors for me, says Nolubabalo.Today, she is a member of one of the biggest choirs in the Western Cape the Stellenbosch Libertas Choir. She had the privilege of visiting Germany earlier this year with the group.Although Nolubabalo is a maths whiz, she is quick to point out that SAP was foreign to her. I had no knowledge of SAP, but the SAP Skills for Africa presentation blew my mind and I decided instantly that was where I wanted to start my mathematics career. Most importantly, the SAP certificate is in demand in the market and it is globally recognised, says Nolubabalo.Armed with communication, computer and SAP skills, she has every intention of improving the services that the city of Cape Town provides to residents. She is thankful for the opportunity to work at the city and plans on being here for some time. Nolubabalo has the following words of encouragement for young people: Don t let anyone make decisions about your career for you. Follow your passion and if you are good at something, work hard and pursue your passion. Most importantly, remember that mathematics will open many doors for you. While maths may sound scary to you, see it as a challenge that you can take on and succeed if you work hard. But as much as you work hard, take time out for your hobbies as they also count in your life. Councillor Xanthea Limberg, the City s Mayoral Committee Member for Corporate Services and Compliance said: It is wonderful when young people are so focused on their careers and are working hard to achieve success in their lives. I would like to warmly welcome Nolubabalo to the City of Cape Town and trust that she will have a long and successful career with us. My message to young people is that such opportunities are a partnership between them and the City. We will make such opportunities available, but it is up to them to take up the challenge and make a success of their careers. The City is proud to be associated with SAP South Africa s job creation initiative. One of the biggest benefits of this training is that it caters for a business need that makes the graduates immediately employable. We are pleased to have taken 15 of the graduates under our wing. Such partnerships are crucial to successfully training our future generation, providing them with much-needed scarce skills, said 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.