Tammy Petersen, News24Mthunzi Patrick Hlomane (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A part-time waiter who raped and robbed five UCT students near Rhodes Memorial was handed nine life sentences by the Western Cape High Court on Monday.Mthunzi Patrick Hlomane, 43, entered a plea agreement with the State after being charged with 12 counts of rape, six of aggravated robbery, and one of assault with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm.Hlomane &ndash; who used a knife, stick, or rock to threaten his victims - preyed on joggers who sported braids. Investigations by police into his cellphone records showed he had an obsession with pornography featuring women with the hairstyle.He was arrested while hiding on the slopes of Table Mountain in March, four months after his first attack in which a woman was raped, assaulted, and robbed at knifepoint on November 19 last year.Hlomane used the cellphone he stole from her to contact her again, resulting in further trauma, the court heard.On December 10 last year, he attacked, robbed and raped another woman. He held her hostage and tied her up. He took a number of photos of her and threatened to post them on social media and leave her at the landmark if she didn&rsquo;t do what he said.The third attack took place on January 11. He robbed and repeatedly raped another woman, assaulting her severely and leaving her with numerous facial and head injuries.&nbsp;He robbed a woman on January 25, and throttled her to the point where she passed out. She sustained a dislocated jaw and numerous facial injuries.Took pictures of victimOn February 4, he repeatedly raped and robbed a UCT student. He forced her to take him to an ATM and withdraw money for him. According to the State, the woman fought back, and apologised to him for defending herself.Prosecutor Susan Galloway argued that Hlomane planned the attacks and, in some cases, forced his victims to walk naked or blindfolded, and forced them to discuss their personal lives with him.Hlomane was arrested on March 12, days after UCT offered a R100 000 reward for information about the attacks.He was sentenced to 108 years direct imprisonment. Galloway said Hlomane would not automatically be eligible for parole after 25 years.&nbsp;"The parole board of the department of correctional services will have to consider the nine life terms and the number of years he has been given," she explained.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.