Teboho.SetenaSouth Africa s all-conquering middle-distance track star, Wayde van Niekerk has been nominated in three categories for the South African Sport Awards (Sasa). Last year, he won three awards: People s Choice award, South African sport star of the year and sportsman of the year prize. And this year he has been nominated in the same categories for his world class performances, the highlights of which include winning gold at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games in the men s 400 m in a record time of 43,03 seconds. The Free State golden boy s superb performance saw him break American sprinter Michael Johnson s towering record of 43,18 seconds, which has stood since 1999 and has rarely been seriously challenged. This year s winners will be known on 27 November when Minister of Sport Fikile Mbalula will announce the deserving recipients at the 11th Sasa. The glittering ceremony will be held in Bloemfontein. The awards will honour both individuals and teams that have delivered exceptional performances between 1 September 2015 and 30 September 2016. Fittingly, the theme this year is Impossible is not a fact. It is an opinion. Impossible is nothing, with the catchy #IzinjaZeGame, loosely meaning dogs of the game. The event rewards exceptional performances of the best South African athletes at the Rio 2016 Olympics and Para Olympics earlier this year. The Sasa 2016 nominees are: Sport star of the year: Wayde van Niekerk, Caster Semenya and Kagiso Rabada. Sportswoman of the year: Jenna Ward, Caster Semenya and Phumza Maweni. Sportsman of the year: Wayde van Niekerk, Hank McGregor and Chad le Clos. People s Choice Award: Chad le Clos, Wayde van Niekerk, Caster Semenya, Kagiso Rabada and Seabelo Senatla. Team of the year: Rowing (men s coxless pair), Mamelodi Sundowns and Blitzboks. Coach of the year: Pitso Mosimane, Anna Botha, Jean Verster and Suzanne Ferreira.Newcomer of the year award: Henri Schoeman, Brad Binder and Ntando Mahlangu. Sportswoman of the year with a disability: Zanele Situ, Anrun Liebenberg and Ilse Hayes.Sportsman of the year with disability: Charl du Toit, Dyan Buis and Reinhardt Hamman.Volunteer of the year: Kim Pople, Carol Blignaut and Charles Villet.Photographer of the year: Sydney Mahlangu, Christian Kotze and Reg Caldecott.Journalist of the year: David van der Sandt, Thabiso Sithole and Kwena Moabelo.School team of the year: St Benedict s: Rowing, La Rochelle Girls High School: Athletics and Paarl Boys High School: Rugby.Recreation body of the year: Egoli Squash, Fight with Insight and Unogwaja. Indigenous Games team of the year: Lim popo Ilncuva, North West Khokho and KZN Kgatli Team.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.