Nicole.John PHOTO: Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A NUMBER of Pietermaritzburg schools have reported that it has been smooth sailing for the 2016 National Senior Certificate examinations.In the past, there were various issues that surfaced regarding the standard of papers, the administration involved and the support to pupils and schools during this time, however, schools have reported there have been no incidents this year. Despite the expected nerves pupils have at this time, the general consensus was that matriculants felt more at ease and better prepared than they did for their June and trial papers. Speaking to Maritzburg Fever, pupils said that one of their concerns is having to deal with a curve-ball paper, however, in both the CAPS and IEB curriculums there have been no surprises so far. The exams have gone smoothly and without mishap. My papers have gone well and the way the government spaced them out is good, giving us sufficient time to study, said Brenna Louwrens, a Grade 12 pupil atfrom Pietermaritzburg Girls High (GHS).According to local schools, no irregularities were reported and no hitches were experienced with the Department of Education. Instead they worked efficiently to accommodate the schools with respect to all administration requirements. In terms of the papers themselves, pupils felt the overall standards met their expectations and most were happy with the level of questioning. A recent trend has formed towards more challenging questions requiring application of the study material in all subjects beyond simply learning and reproducing the information. Teachers take pride in guiding pupils through their school years in preparation for their matric exams, and ensure they provide support. Cathy Trodd from GHS said that in order to maintain the standard of testing, matrics are coached from Grade 8 to ensure they are comfortable with the requirements of the NSC exams. She said that the rationale behind this is to build confidence in pupils, encouraging them to approach their exams positively and with a greater sense of calmness. A number of teachers said the effects of this approach have been evident and schools hope to see this continuing to come through when the results are released. Support groups and tutoring are also standard procedure in many of the schools of which both pupils and staff are involved.The general expectation for the results is high. No surprises are expected by pupils and schools and the best is always hoped for. The stress and anticipation for the results has caused a sense of togetherness to be felt among pupils. This unity has also been a common theme said to have eased the pressure of the experience. There s a real sense of togetherness with the girls at school and others around the country, because we are all going through the same thing, said Demi Bade-Aluko, a St John s matriculant, and I m just hoping to do my personal best. IEB results will be released at midnight on Thursday 29 December while CAPS pupils will need to wait until January 2017 to receive their results.According to local schools, no irregularities were reported and no hitches were experienced with the Department of Education. Instead they worked efficiently to accommodate the schools with respect to all administration requirements24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.