Lizeka Tandwa, News24Journalists, political analysts and civil rights organisations discuss state capture. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former president Nelson Mandela hid state capture much better than President Jacob Zuma, the Right to Know (R2K) campaign said on Tuesday.&ldquo;Mbeki and Mandela administration hid it much better. They were much more sophisticated. They weren't nearly crude as Zuma,&rdquo; spokesperson Dale McKinley said at a debate on the topic, hosted by the Institute for the Advancement of Journalism.He said the arms deals made the Gupta family&rsquo;s attempts to influence government decisions pale in comparison.&ldquo;The alarm bells should have gone off prior to 1994. By the time 1990 turned around and the time of the unbanning, corporate capture had already captured the state. It already set the scene of post-apartheid South Africa.&rdquo;He said it was a systematic problem which he predicted would result in another revolution.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a systemic problem that is a going to take a long period of time. We are probably heading to another revolutionary period which will be very, very messy. We have an entire class of individuals that have captured an entire country, and that is going to take a serious struggle.&rdquo;Public Protector reportREAD: State capture? Probe Ramaphosa and the Ruperts, says Edward ZumaFormer public protector Thuli Madonsela&rsquo;s &ldquo;State of Capture&rdquo; report was made public on November 2. In it she details how the Guptas, who are friends of Zuma, allegedly tried to influence several Cabinet appointments.She said Zuma was required to select and appoint ministers lawfully and in compliance with the executive ethics code.The report includes details of how the Guptas offered Deputy Finance Minister the job of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, in exchange for doing favours for the family.Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen, who briefly replaced Nene in December 2015, could be placed in the Saxonwold, Johannesburg, where the Guptas have their compound, on at least seven occasions.This included the day before he was appointed finance minister. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.