Jeanette Chabalala, News24A handful of UJ students protesting on Kingsway road. (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; A handful of University of Johannesburg students marched in Auckland Park on Thursday to demand that the university removes "hired bouncers".Student leader Lesedi Diseko said they had embarked on a legal march from Rissik Street in central Johannesburg. When they reached Kingsway Road, police officers stopped them from approaching UJ&rsquo;s Kingsway campus.Diseko said they wanted to submit a memorandum of demands to Vice Chancellor Ihron Rensburg. &nbsp;"We want bouncers to go today because we have been complaining about them. We have been living with bouncers for the past two years and students are scared of them," she said, referring to security guards the university had hired.They wanted justice for UJ student Elizo Baloyi, who was shot and killed at an end-of-year-party at an inner city residence, in Rissik Street, in the early hours of Saturday."He was shot at an accredited accommodation and UJ has since distanced itself with all the emails they have been sending to us. The university has to take responsibility," she said. &nbsp;There were claims that a security guard shot the student. The Africa Housing Company, which owns the building in Rissik Street, said on Monday that the alleged killer was not a security guard. He appeared to have entered the building at the same time as guards employed by SNG Security.UJ spokesperson Kaamini Reddy said: "The security guard was not employed by UJ. He is part of security provided by the owner of the residence, which was accredited by the university."Reddy said police were investigating. She said it was difficult to say what had happened because the killing occurred outside university hours and off campus. &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.