Kaveel Singh, News24(Photo: SABC website) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Parliament&rsquo;s ad hoc committee set up to look into the SABC board will meet for the first time on Tuesday to discuss if it is still fit to do its job.Multiple resignations had left the board with just three remaining members. It needed nine to form a quorum. Three board members resigned after former chief operations officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng was reinstated in a senior management role in September.The ad hoc committee was appointed by the National Assembly. It had until January to decide on the board&rsquo;s future.Earlier this month however, Communications Minister Faith Muthambi told Parliament that the SABC board was functional and could take decisions with only three members.On October 5, SABC board members Krish Naidoo and Vusi Mavuso announced their resignations at a meeting with Parliament&rsquo;s communications committee. MPs agreed the current board was dysfunctional and ill-governed, neglecting its fiduciary duty towards the public, and that it should be dissolved. Mavuso told News24 the last straw for him was seeing the board&rsquo;s presentation to the committee, which he said he had made no contribution to. He said some executives had been coerced into accepting severance packages, which he said was inappropriate.Naidoo said that as a lawyer, he could not accept that the majority of his colleagues were willing to accept Motsoeneng&rsquo;s appointment as acting COO. He said this was illegal.&nbsp; On September 19, the Supreme Court of Appeal rejected Motsoeneng&rsquo;s bid to appeal the Western Cape High Court&rsquo;s November 2015 ruling declaring his appointment irrational and setting it aside. Public Protector Thuli Madonsela found in a report released in February 2014, that Motsoeneng lied about his qualifications when he applied for the post of COO, that he hiked his salary from R1.5m to R2.4m in one year, and purged senior staff.Despite the SCA&rsquo;s ruling, the SABC announced on September 27 that Motsoeneng had been appointed to the post of group executive for corporate affairs. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.