Precious.Gumede PHOTO: supplied Green Motorsport VW Golf 7R will be at the drags on 6 November. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories SOUTH Coast drag racing track Dezzi Raceway is to host a 60-foot drag racing event organised by KZN Drag Racing and GasMagazine on 6 November. This will a first for the track and they will be preparing a “track bite” for the drivers. The event provides the optimal surface for serious competitors to attempt eight- and nine-second passes, or to break the infamous 10-second barrier. Darren Lewis of JZN Drag Racing said usually they have track bite in the burn-out area. This is the first time that 60ft will be covered. “We believe it has never been done before in KZN,” said Lewis. Organisers promise a racing field that includes new models racing against modified older cars. “You’ll see cars like an E36 M3 powered by a 1000 horsepower Toyota 2JZE, race against 800 hp Skyline GTR. It will be thrilling,” said Prethiven Naidoo, of Gas Magazine. The event has also attracted requests from across the country to race South Africa’s record-breaking vehicles at the event. “Rob Green Motorsport will be bringing their VW Golf 7R that amassed a 11-second flat run in Johannesburg. They’re hoping the track bite and sea level will help them break the 10-second barrier,” said Naidoo. This is KZN Drag Racing and Gas Magazine’s fifth drag racing event at Dezzi since the drag strip was completed in June. The fastest time recorded at Dezzi South Coast Raceway was an eight-second pass by a purpose-built rail car. The fastest time recorded for a roadworthy vehicle was 9.1 seconds by NXgen. Both records were set racing without any track preparation. The event in November is sure to impress fanatics and those new to the sport. “Seeing cars drive that fast across 400m is certainly something to tick on the bucket list,” said Lewis. So if you’re looking for a fun day out, KZN Drag Racing and GasMagazine have partnered with Dunlop Zone Tyres 2 Go to give public prize giveaways throughout the day. “It’s going to be action packed on and off the track” he said. - Supplied.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  