Jenna Etheridge, News24EFF leader Julius Malema. (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) will hold a night vigil on Sunday ahead of their leader Julius Malema's appearance in court on charges of incitement. Members would gather at the Batho Community Hall in Bochabela at 21:00 on Sunday, close to the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court.Malema is due to appear there on Monday for allegedly urging supporters to invade land in December 2014.During the party's elective conference in Bloemfontein in 2014, Malema, reportedly told his supporters: "We are going to occupy the unoccupied land because we need the land. For us to eat&sbquo; we must have the land. For us to work&sbquo; we must have the land. I come from Seshego. If there is unoccupied land&sbquo; we will go and occupy the land with my branch. You must go and do the same in the branch where you come from."Malema made a brief appearance in the Newcastle Magistrate's Court on Monday on another charge of contravening the Riotous Assemblies Act of 1956.He reportedly told his supporters in Newcastle in June this year that whites had no claim to land in South Africa, because they brought no land with them when they colonised the tip of the continent.The matter in Newcastle was postponed to December 7. Civil rights group AfriForum laid the charges against him. "Malema must realise that his land-grab policy will not be executed without opposition. AfriForum will fight any land-grab policy with everything in our power," spokesperson Nantes Kelder told City Press in December 2014. Malema's lawyer, Tumi Mokoena, told journalists outside the court on Monday that his client wanted to challenge the constitutionality of the Act."The Act provides for racial tension between Europeans and non-Europeans," said Mokoena.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.