Jenni Evans, News24Constable Amanda Ladlokova (Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Philippi East police constable Amanda Ladlokova was killed while she and a colleague were trying to help in a domestic violence complaint, the Athlone Magistrate's Court heard on Friday."The first suspect is accused of making sure they were dead," the prosecutor told Magistrate Keith le Keur. Ladlokova's Facebook profile shows a fresh-faced young woman who loved music - including&nbsp;Zahara, Thandiswa Mazwai and Afropop - and doted on her family. But after the shooting on November 22, there will be no more photographs of the constable who proudly checked in at the Philippi East police station, posed with a sweet faced toddler, and loved gospel music.On Friday, one of her suspected shooters, Ashwin Kennedy, 19, appeared disoriented as he stood in the dock in a brown sweatshirt.Two other suspects were yet to be arrested.Kennedy, who faces a charge of murder and another of attempted murder,&nbsp;at first appeared unable to speak when Le Keur asked whether he would like a pro bono&nbsp;Legal Aid attorney, or if he would represent himself in court. After Le Keur repeated the question several times,&nbsp;Kennedy located the microphone in front of him and simply mumbled, '"Legal Aid". Domestic violence complaint Occasionally he turned around towards the public gallery, apparently searching for a familiar face.&nbsp; According to the case docket so far, Ludlokova and a colleague were called to Acacia Street in Philippi East to intervene in a domestic violence complaint. While they were there, a woman ran up to them and asked if they could urgently help in a similar situation around the corner. The officers said they would go as soon as they were finished with the first complaint. When they reached the second house, the woman who summoned them there said she was standing at the door when three people suddenly shooting at the officers. She got such a fright that she ran away and hid at the back of the house. Another witness, peeping through her window, said she saw one person shooting, and two people searching the officers after they fell to the ground.The court heard that another witness, who owns a car wash up the road, said she had seen the three earlier in the day sitting around at the business. Shot 3 timesPeople often congregated around there and smoked drugs.The trio&nbsp;had left about an hour-and-a-half before the shooting. The witness told investigating officers that she had gone to the door to look for her boyfriend when she saw the shooting.Ludlokova was shot three times and died. The other officer was shot in the neck, according to a report by Eyewitness News. The court heard that he had survived by playing dead. The Hawks said earlier this week that the officers' firearms were also stolen.'It affects the morale'Information on what happened to the victim in the second domestic violence complaint was not immediately available.Kennedy will stay in prison until his next appearance on December 2 when police hope to have arrested the other two suspects, and when they should have more information to determine whether he should be granted bail.&nbsp;The case was heard as President Jacob Zuma launched the annual 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Children Campaign in Limpopo.On Friday, grim-faced representatives of the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) were present in court to honour Ludlokova&nbsp;and to show support for her grieving family and the wounded officer."It affects the morale of our members," Popcru provincial case manager Pat Raolane said."Clearly this is not what we can tolerate."Raolane said Popcru was upset that the Western Cape government had not come out strongly to condemn the shooting.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.