Jenni Evans, News24EFF leader Julius Malema. (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The death of Cuban liberation leader Fidel Castro pained the EFF which had drawn inspiration from him, the party said on Saturday."The EFF mourns the passing of the leader of the Cuban Revolution, Commandant Fidel Castro, who passed away at the age of 90 today," the Economic Freedom Fighters said after Castro's death at the age of 90."We send our revolutionary condolences to the family and close friends as well as the people of Cuba as a whole," it said. &nbsp;His passing, though it brings pains to our hearts, it also brings hope (1) #EFFOnCastroWe love Fidel Castro &amp; we are inspired by his fearless struggle against imperialism. We salute the 26 July movement, RIP Commandant Castro "We know too well that Commandant Fidel Castro's 90 years of existence touched the lives of many in the world, particularly socialist militants who are still fighting capitalism and imperialism. We pass revolutionary condolences to them as well, hoping wishing revolutionary peace to their painful hearts." South Africa would not have been freed from apartheid without the contribution of the Cuban people and Castro,&nbsp;EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said."We in South Africa know that our liberation from apartheid is unthinkable without the contribution of the Cuban people. "Above all, it is the Cuban role in the Angolan Civil War, in particular at the battle of Cuito Cuanavale that humbled the arrogant apartheid armies," he said. According to SA History Online (Saho), the 1988 battle marked a turning point in African politics. Saho explained that the battle was fought on the banks of the Lomba River in the vicinity of Cuito Cuanavale, in south-eastern Angola. It was between Unita, aided by the apartheid SA Defence Force, and the Angolan army Fapla aided by Cuba, the Soviet Union and, to a lesser extent, East Germany.&nbsp; "It is not a secret that here, the South African Apartheid troops suffered the worst losses in what is the second largest battle in the history of Africa after the Battle of El Alamein, and the largest in sub-Saharan Africa since World War II."The EFF said that the Cuban principles of liberating the oppressed and taking a stand against capitalism that benefited an elite few formed part of its own founding principles."The founding of the EFF relies on the memory and history of the July 26 Movement which laid [the] foundation and guaranteed victory for the Cuban Revolution in 1959. "Only at the age of 27, Comandate Castro led this movement from its first military activities in 1953 up to its revolutionary victory in 1959. We draw inspiration that revolution and militant struggle often requires the youth in its forefront as it manifested in Cuba itself."Nt only does Cuba send doctors 2 th world, it also brings thousands of foreign nationals 2 its universities 4 medical training. #EFFOnCastro"The generosity of the Cuban people is made in the image of Commandant Fidel Castro's heart," the party said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.