Heilie Combrinck, Netwerk24Port Elizabeth - Buntu Fihla is known in art circles for his striking works that are snapped up in South Africa and Europe, but few people know of how in awe he is of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela.So much so that he has&nbsp;painted a massive&nbsp;image of her face on the wall of an abandoned building in Uitenhage, Netwerk24 reported."I have a young girl and I would like her to grow up as strong and principled as Thuli."&nbsp;Fihla said his painting was in just the right place, because&nbsp;it meant the painting of&nbsp;Madonsela, a&nbsp;formidable woman, could be seen from afar.He hopes the artwork&nbsp;will inspire other South Africans striving for justice. &nbsp;"There isn't a better example than Thuli for any girl. She is a woman who in her quest for justice can beat difficult odds," said Fihla, who is a self-taught art photographer, painter and graphic designer.&nbsp;'My President'He has brightened the walls of many a derelict building in strategic positions with his graffiti art.&nbsp;"My cousin and I drove past the building and the wall immediately caught my attention. I wanted to do something different, something which would really have an impact. That's when I decided it must be Thuli." &nbsp;His title for the&nbsp;painting is My President."When one talks about Thuli Madonsela, you are talking about the values that so many South Africans hold dear. You are talking about anti-corruption, principles and strong leadership. So the painting is just to say that she is one of South Africa's most respected people &ndash; she is that for me."&nbsp;He says he would like to paint similar graffiti art on many other walls, but the bureaucratic red tape is just too much. And if he does it without the necessary permission, Fihla says, he can be charged with vandalism. &nbsp;&nbsp;"However, if there are people with buildings that have walls in the right places and who want to share their graffiti art message with the world,&nbsp;they please have to contact me via my website, www.buntufihla.com."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.