Lynn.Hitchcock Photo: Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE 17th annual Durban National Motorcycle Toy Run is set to take place on Sunday, 27 November. For just a toy as entry, riders get to show off their bikes in a mass charity ride beginning at the Pavilion Shopping Centre, at 9.30am.The toy run ends at Lords and Legends at the Amanzimtoti Sports Ground, where there will be live entertainment for adults and children, market stalls, and a President s Auction , where the club president that raises the most money gets to choose a local children s charity which they donate the entire amount to. Entry into the end venue is also just a toy.Sapphire Coast Tourism s Monique Botha is delighted that the toy run ends in Amanzimtoti. We love events happening in our town, and toy run has been running for many years and is a wonderful initiative. We believe we need to offer support for such worthy causes. This event draws many people, thus benefiting accommodation, restaurants, pubs, shopping outlets and business.Lesley Boes, an organiser of the Durban Toy Run said: Everyone is welcome to bring a toy to the end venue, where they will enjoy live music, good food and entertainment. Come and admire beautiful bikes, fantastic stands and meet interesting people. Anyone wishing to donate toys by the bakkie load is also welcome. We need in excess of 20 000 toys this year. Chain stores, schools, shopping malls, clubs, anyone who can collect toys. Please do so and make a day of it by bringing them to the end venue. South Africans can pride themselves in knowing that their country holds the world record and has broken the Guinness Book of Records for the largest amount of motorcycles in one place, and the biggest Charity Toy Run in the world.Durbanites can brag that their charity ride is the second largest in South Africa. Last year s toy run had more than 8 000 bikers, and collected almost 15 000 toys, which were distributed to more than 30 local charities. The toy run is a great initiative to gather toys for unfortunate children in time for Christmas, and is the biggest mass ride in Durban, said Koot and Kettie from the Roadhogs Durban Motorcycle Club.Quintin Riddick from Megaforce South Coast said: The toy run is an event I attend every year. It is enjoyable and brings everyone together for a good cause.The KZN Motorcycle Federation Road Captains and the RTI, Metro Police and SAPS, will be controlling the intersection s and on and off-ramps along the route from the Pavilion to the N3, down the N2 south to Kingsway Road, and to the traffic lights at Adams Road.Anyone not participating in the toy run, but who wants to use these roads is advised to use alternative routes or leave for their destination before 9am or after 11am in order to avoid delays due to road closures. - Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.