Candyce.KrishnaPHOTO: Facebook A washing machine filled with water in Ramsgate. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories REPORTS of dirty drinking water have been going on for months on the lower South Coast and while residents are fed up, others continue to take to social media to vent.According to Facebook groups, Hibiscus Coast Seconds and Ugu Complaints residents in Ramsgate, Umtentweni and Shelly Beach are experiencing dirty water.A restaurant owner in Umtentweni says he has to change the filters on his taps every week. These filters are made to last at least two months, but I have to change them every week because they turn brown quickly, said Blackie Swart.Swart, who lives in Shelly Beach said the same applies to the filters at his home. He spends R350 every week on four filters for his home and business. Something has to be done about this. What about the people who can t afford filters? Are they supposed to just drink this dirty water? he asked.A Sea Park resident, Samantha Naude, said she noticed brown water on Tuesday morning. Before this I had no problems with tap water, she said.Dries du Plessis, owner of Oasis Water in Shelly Beach said holidaymakers have visited his business in the past week, complaining of diarrhoea. One of them was a school teacher from Gauteng who was on holiday with seven children. Two of them had diarrhoea, said Du Plessis.On another occasion, four holidaymakers visited his store on one day to buy water. They also complained of stomach problems, he said.Oasis Water has an independent laboratory that sends lab technicians to each branch to conduct tests on a weekly basis. The latest tests, conducted by Talbot &amp; Talbot Laboratories in November, showed over 3 000 colonies of E. coli per millilitre in the tap water. This is meant to be 0. We purify on average 80 000 litres per month, which in itself tells you a story. People do not trust our municipal water anymore, said Du Plessis.The Ugu District Municipality failed to comment on the matter at the time of going to press on Wednesday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.