Patson Dzamara in hospital (supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Zimbabwe court has indefinitely postponed the trial of five war veteran leaders charged with insulting longtime President Robert Mugabe, citing bungling by the prosecution.Luthando Vikilahle, News24 Harare - Zimbabwean activist Patson Dzamara has been released from hospital after spending at least four days at a private hospital in Harare, following his abduction last week.Dzamara and other activists were kidnapped and assaulted by unknown men in Harare on Friday, hours ahead of a demonstration that was planned against the introduction of bond notes.&nbsp;Dzamara's car and that of another activist were found burnt beyond recognition in the capital.In an interview with News24, Dzamara said that he was thankful that he was still alive, and that he was recovering well after his "unforgettable ordeal". "I am now recovering and I am responding well to medication. I am grateful that I am alive, after what I went through on Friday," said Dzamara.Also read: Zim activist abducted, assaulted ahead of Mugabe #Bondnote demoNarrating his ordeal, Dzamara said that he was with a group of other activists when two cars approached from the front and blocked their way."I was abducted in the early hours of Friday. I was with a group of activists and was driving home when two cars approached us from the front and blocked our way. "When we tried to reverse, we realised that another car had also blocked us from behind. A number of armed men came out with guns pointed at us. Some of my colleagues were able to escape, but about eight of us were unable to run," said Dzamara.He said that they were beaten up before he was separated from them. He was blind-folded and bundled into car which then drove off to a nearby stream. "I was taken to a stream, which I was only able to recognise because of the sound of water flowing. As my abductors were busy torturing me, one of them made a telephone call to someone whom I think was the man in charge, as he was giving them instructions on what to do with me.Patson Dzamara in hospital (Supplied)&nbsp;"About ten minutes after the boss and his subordinate had spoken on the phone, the boss called back and instructed them to kill me."However, the guy on the phone on my side asked the boss to send one of his other guys with a catalyst, which I think would have been used on me. However, they were unable to find any as one of the men told me that I was lucky and should continue thanking my god," said Dzamara.He said that he heard them saying that he should be killed or made to disappear like his elder brother Itai. However, the two men on the phone failed to agree on what weapon to use to kill him.&nbsp;Dzamara's brother, Itai &nbsp;has been missing since March 2015 after&nbsp;bravely staging lone protests&nbsp;calling on President&nbsp;Robert Mugabe&nbsp;to step down in central Harare's Africa Unity Square.Dzamara said that after the conversation with the man in charge, the group once again put him inside the car and drove off to a nearby forest where he was stripped naked and urinated on.&nbsp; The group then fled the scene and left him unconscious. He was later helped by a passerby, who dropped him off at a service station. &nbsp;"I was only able to regain my consciousness when I was dropped at a service station in Harare. The petrol attendants at the service station offered me something to cover myself with and gave me a phone to call my brother who then came to fetch me and took me to the hospital," he said.&nbsp; Patson Dzamara in hospital (Supplied)&nbsp;Dzamara said that he was in the process of opening a case against his abductors, adding, however, that he was not sure if he would be able to receive any help from the police, as he suspected that his kidnappers were state agents. &nbsp;"I'm not going to identify my abductors, however, as a formality I would be giving my statement to the police, and hopefully they would be able to investigate. I don't think though this would amount to anything as I suspect my abductors are law agents themselves. One of them said that I should learn from what had happened to my brother Itai, therefore I think those people do know what happened to my brother," said Dzamara.&nbsp;He maintained that his experiences would not deter him from fighting for a "better" Zimbabwe."I thank God for preserving my life. There is no God like Jehova. He fought for me and he will always do. There is only one God and I will never be afraid of any human being.&nbsp; If they did this thinking it will break me, too bad, this has made me stronger. It has emboldened my resolve to fight for freedom, justice and ultimately a better Zimbabwe.&nbsp; I will never ever be silent while these Zanu-PF satanists continue to urinate on our heads," said Dzamara.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.