Lynn.HitchcockNicola Sipeman initiated a campaign - the Mpho Campaign - to help the poor.Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories PINETOWN Fever spoke to Nicola Sipeman from St Benedict School in Pinetown, about her Mpho Campaign. PF: Where and when were you born?NS: Crompton Hospital on 10 May, 2000.PF: What are your hobbies?NS: Swimming, riding motorbikes and being involved in community service projects.PF: Why did you name your initiative the Mpho Campaign?NS: The Mpho Campaign - Mpho was a nickname given to me while at the leadership forum [Enke leadership forum in Johannesburg] and when translated means One Gift . This sparked the name for my campaign.PF: What is the purpose of your campaign?NS: The purpose of the campaign is to help the homeless population in the eThekwini area to regain their basic dignity through the distribution of dignity bags. These bags contain items such as a toothbrush, a bar of soap, toothpaste, a facecloth, a pack of pads, a roll of toilet paper and condoms - all basic items that we take for granted every day.PF: What drove you to start this type of campaign? NS: At the Enke leadership forum we were afforded the opportunity to develop a Cap [community action project] and needless to say I chose to target poverty and homelessness. In Durban specifically there is an exponentially growing homeless population and it s pretty obvious that I cannot alleviate their situation completely, but what I can do is try and give them back their basic dignity. I ve always been passionate about community service and my heart bleeds for these desperate people, so that is ultimately what drove me towards starting the Mpho Campaign. My motivational quote for this campaign is regaining dignity means that homeless is no longer hopeless . PF: What message would you pass to the youth? NS: One message that I truly believe our youth need to hear is that you don t need the label of adult to be able to make a difference. Sometimes all it takes is a little vision and some passion to make a change.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.