Kaveel Singh, News24Boxer store opening Elgin. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Four Boxer retail stores were robbed in the early hours of Tuesday morning with one of the robberies claiming the life of a police officer. According to police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, the officer was killed in the Ixopo CBD while conducting patrols.Officers received a report of a business robbery at a Boxer store in the area and on arrival at the scene were fired upon by the suspects. Zwane said a 36-year-old constable was shot in the neck and fatally wounded while a 28-year-old police officer sustained gunshot wounds on the arm, stomach and chest. "The injured police officer was taken to hospital in a critical condition. The suspects fled the scene in their getaway vehicle with an undisclosed amount of money. Ixopo police are investigating charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery."Zwane said police were urging members of the public to come forward with any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects.Condolences to familyKwaZulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner Major General Bheki Langa condemned the attack. "I wish to extend my deepest condolences to the family of the police officer who passed on. The member who is in hospital is in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time."Langa said authorities would ensure the case is "investigated to the best of our ability".Meanwhile, more Boxer stores were targeted by robbers in other parts of KZN, particularly during opening times.Boxer stores were targeted in Mpumalanga, Jolivet and Hlabisa, Zwane said. In both Mpumalanga and Jolivet Boxer stores were attacked at around 07:00. In Mpumalanga, eight men approached employees and held them at gunpoint.Held at gunpoint"The suspects demanded cash from the cashiers before opening fire. They took an undisclosed amount of cash and fled the scene in their getaway vehicle. No one was injured."In Jolivet, four men armed with AK47s and pistols allegedly held up the security guard and manager of the store, Zwane said. Zwane said a case of business robbery was opened at the Highflats SAPS for investigation. "No arrests have been made at this stage."In Hlabisa, an assistant manager and security guard were held at gunpoint&nbsp;by six suspects&nbsp;while opening the store. "They instructed them to be quiet and demanded money from the assistant manager."Zwane said no shots were fired. A case of business robbery was opened at Hlabisa police station for investigation, he added.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.