Cheryl CarolusFrank Chikane and Cheryl Carolus (Lerato Sejake, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories We stand here today as loyal dedicated members of the ANC.We have been actively part of the struggle for decades. We are proud of our country and what we have achieved and understand the centrality of the ANC to the progress or lack thereof.Like many South Africans we are deeply upset and concerned about recent events. We have seen ever increasing setbacks to non-racialism, non-sexism and nation building. We have been seeing a growing impatience by our people with the unresponsiveness of government to major grievances and flash points: the country is burning and the ANC is missing in action.We as stalwarts of the ANC are appalled by the levels of corruption and the flagrant undermining of our beloved Constitution and the rule of law. We are witnessing the degradation of important institutions that had been built up painstakingly since the dawn of democracy.It is very apparent that the blatant looting of public assets is being openly facilitated by deliberate state capture.Sadly, at the centre of much of this disgraceful behaviour sits our President and some very dodgy people he has surrounded himself with.Our President and those around him have successfully marginalised anyone with decency and who acts in defence of the values of the ANC. Our President has brought shame to our organisation and our country for personal indiscretions and blatant actions of corruption and collusion with forces who do not care about people or our country. In these processes he has abused state power and resources to delay and thwart justice. He has used state institutions to hound those who have tried to do their jobs in the public sector. Well known persons subjected to the most despicable abuse include our previous Public Protector, former Hawks head Anwar Dramat, our finance minister and his erstwhile colleagues from SARS. But there are hundreds if not thousands of smart, well qualified, honest younger people who joined the public service to serve and who are being hounded and persecuted because they refused to be captured.The tone of much of this is set at the top, very consciously by our President.Many of us in our group have on many occasions in the past, jointly and individually, attempted to address these concerns quietly and discreetly with the leadership of the ANC. All of our efforts were met with highly unsatisfactory and even outrageously disrespectful responses. The latest example of this has been after we in this group came together very quietly and very discreetly asked the President for a meeting with himself and the senior leadership. This is why we have decided that we will go public with our concerns and we will give up on quiet discreet efforts with the President and his team. They do not care about the harm they continue to bring upon our organization and our country. They do not care about the cries of the poor who are bearing the brunt of the tough economic global situation. They do not care about our children whose duration is being compromised due to lack of sustainable funding solutions and leadership during the crisis at our universities.Most frightening for us has been the crude efforts to strip the institutions of democracy of their roles and to embed in these institutions puppets who are captured. The breathtaking actions of the director of the NPA, Mr Abrahams, is the latest case in point.- Speech delivered at a meeting of ANC stalwarts on state capture.Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.