Jenni Evans, News24(Karabo Ngoepe, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg -&nbsp;Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba wants a senior Johannesburg police official probed for possible protection of a drug suspect during an arrest in Braamfontein last week. This was after an SA Police Services captain allegedly demanded that the city's newly launched K9-Narcotics Unit hand over a man they found in a room in which 56kg of dagga was stored, he said on Saturday. "Of great concern to me, I have been informed that during the gathering of evidence and investigation, a higher ranking SAPS captain mysteriously arrived and demanded the return of her suspect," said Mashaba in a statement. "Despite proper investigation procedure and reasoning, the lower ranking officers had to comply and handed the suspect back to the SAPS captain." Mashaba wants the provincial commissioner to urgently investigate the relationship between the police captain and the suspect. "The suspect is believed to be the head supplier of dagga in Braamfontein and there is a legitimate risk that he is being protected. In our war on drugs this is completely unacceptable." The unit was launched on Monday with member of the mayoral committee for safety Michael Sun and made its first big bust on Friday, valued at around R1.2 million, following a tip-off from an arrest on Wednesday. Mashaba said that following Wednesday's bust, a sergeant got a tip-off that a large amount of dagga was being off-loaded in Jorissen Street, Braamfontein. In a stop-and-search, dagga was allegedly found in a vehicle outside the building and the sergeant called for back-up from his unit and the Germiston police organised crime unit.The operation lead to a room in the building and the police urgently applied for a search warrant. A large amount of dagga was allegedly discovered and seized in the room but the sergeant recognised the occupant as a Tanzanian man arrested for a similar offence in April. The man had been released on a fine. He had also appeared in court for another offence on Friday. That was when the officer allegedly intervened and wanted the suspect.Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo urged Mashaba to register a complaint with the police so that the allegation could be investigated.Meanwhile, Mashaba congratulated the new unit for its work."This Unit is sending a clear message that law enforcement in Joburg will relentlessly pursue drug dealers using intelligence at its disposal. There will be no safe haven for drug lords in Johannesburg."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.