Valene.GovenderTongaat CBD came to a standstill due to the power outage. Photo: ANDILE SITHOLE Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories BUSINESS owners in the Tongaat CBD and the residents were left without electricity on Monday and Tuesday due to a cable fault.Prem Misthry (74), the owner a photography studio in Tongaat said: This is frustrating and totally unacceptable. We were not informed about it, we would have come up with other alternatives. My customers are coming in and I have to send them away because there is no electricity. I lost close to R500 a day and if this [outage] continues we will lose a lot of money . I phoned the electricity department to find out what the problem was, but nobody answered. Residents from Maidstone, Buffelsdale, Flamingo Heights, Hambanathi and Fairbreeze were also affected. Siyabonga Nkosi (36), from Hambanathi: I was coming back from work on Monday when I realised there was no electricity. I phoned the office of the councillor to find out what the problem could be. EFF councillor Praggie Padayachee said he received numerous calls from Tongaat residents reporting power outages. When I called the control room I was told there was a cable fault. At around 1pm on Tuesday the power was back in Plain Street and even in the Fairbreeze area. The ongoing power disruption in various areas in Tongaat and surroundings is in most cases due to cable theft and illegal connections. Although the law enforcement unit may be conducting their duties, the ongoing interruptions can be rectified if the municipality prioritises the consideration of electrifying the surrounding informal settlements. The recent power disruptions on Monday and Tuesday were major cable faults due to the change of weather patterns whereby cables began to pop due to the build-up of moisture in the weak spots of the cable covers. Unfortunately, the lack of manpower causes tremendous inconvenience to business owners and residential units, he said. An eThekwni Municipality spokesperson said she would get back to Weekly regarding the outage, but at the time of going to press had not. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.