Get the latest updates as stormy weather continues to pummel Gauteng and other parts of the country. Are you affected by the wild weather? - Send us your eyewitness accounts and picturesPhoto credit for main image: Audrit Mayenetja, News24 User Jump to bottom Meanwhile, in KZN: Disaster management teams across KwaZulu-Natal have been placed on high alert in anticipation of heavy rains and thunderstorms on Thursday night and Friday. Co-operative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube said information received from the South African Weather Service indicated that Newcastle, Nquthu, Dundee, Vryheid and eDumbe in Zululand were among areas that would be affected the most. The warning comes after heavy rains damaged 220 households in the uMzinyathi district last week. The City of Tshwane says its electricity technicians are hard at work trying to restore power supply to various areas following the current severe thunderstorms. These areas have been affected: Mooikloof; Garsfontein; Silver Lakes; Watloo; Wapadrand; Mamelodi; Eersterust; Silverton; East Lynne; Montana; Doornpoort and Rooiwal The Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) has warned motorists to avoid roads which are prone to flooding including the N1 Buccleuch interchange, M1 Athol Road off-ramp and the N3 Linksfield Road.JMPD's Wayne Minnaar has also warned motorists to avoid New Canada Road and Klipspruitvalley Road in Soweto. "A lot of water can be very powerful and can wash away a vehicle. Yesterday six to nine vehicles were swept off the N3 at Linksfield by excessive storm water, motorists should drive with caution in the rain," Minnaar said.If you're going on the road, click here to find out how things look. The South African Weather Service has warned more severe thunderstorms are on the way in the Ekurhuleni area, with reports of lighting activity grounding flights at OR Tambo International, Traveller24 reported on Thursday.SA Weather Service tweeted, "Warning 18:00-23:00 possible severe thunderstorms Ekurhuleni, Tshwane metropole, north-east part of Joburg metropole. Heavy rain, large hail"From Traveller24: After severe flooding in Johannesburg on Wednesday, the SA Weather Service warned those in Gauteng to remain alert as severe thunderstorms are expected to persist on Thursday night and Friday. Several people went missing on Wednesday when the storms first struck. Roads were flooded and flights were delayed at OR Tambo Airport. A boundary wall at the Johannesburg Zoo had also collapsed. Jump to top