Ernst RoetsErnst Roets, AfriForum. Picture: Theana Breugem Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan said that tolerance, intercultural dialogue and respect for diversity were more essential than ever in a world where people were becoming more closely interconnected. There is growing concern that many white people, particularly Afrikaners, prefer not to participate in public discussions about race. About a month ago, I did just that at the University of the Free State (UFS). There were about four white people in the room, of whom two were panellists. As I have witnessed before, whites were lambasted for their absence at these discussions.This is not to say that white people do not talk about race. The topic is discussed socially, but not at public events where the battle of ideas takes place.Racism is obviously a problem for all of us. The reality is that many white people refrain from participating in discussions on race because such discussions are often so one-sided that it leaves no room for constructive engagement. For example, after I spoke at the UFS discussion (which I was invited to do), I was told to &ldquo;shut up and listen&rdquo;, and the fact that a white person had been invited to talk in front of black people was aggressively questioned.There is research to support the notion that racism is not South Africa&rsquo;s biggest problem, but a symptom of other bigger ones. This doesn&rsquo;t mean that we shouldn&rsquo;t talk about race, however. There are several reasons many white people refrain from such discussions. I will mention five.1. &ldquo;Blacks can&rsquo;t be racist&rdquo;Black race merchants argue that black people are the only people who have been oppressed and that, as a result, it is impossible for any black person to be racist. The idea that black people are incapable of racism seems to gain ground among so-called progressive commentators. The claim is glaringly bankrupt of philosophical thought and can easily be refuted. My concern, however, is that those who make these claims appear to be too scared to have their views scrutinised, and therefore simply respond to any criticism with intensified accusations of racism.2. Single narrative, double standardsAbout a month ago, a black student council member at the University of Pretoria publicly expressed his urge to murder white people. This didn&rsquo;t cause much of an outcry, as the mainstream media and social commentators were focused on lambasting Pretoria High School for Girls for its &ldquo;racist policy&rdquo; on hairstyles. Judging from the level of public outcry that we saw, telling girls that they cannot have Afros is exponentially worse than encouraging the murder of white people. The only narrative that seems to be acceptable is one in which black people are victims and white people are offenders.3. Codeword Justice&ldquo;Justice&rdquo; has become the buzz word of the decade. Virtually every demand that has something to do with race is framed as being in the interest of justice, whether it is expropriating land owned by white people, vandalising statues, shutting down universities or assaulting white students. While we all believe in justice, that noble term has been hijacked to justify anti-white racism and, in some cases, even crime.4. Black pain, white guiltDuring a recent TV debate on racism, one girl from the #MustFall movement almost burst into tears when someone mentioned the name of Nelson Mandela. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t mention that name,&rdquo; she argued. &ldquo;It makes me suffocate. I can&rsquo;t breathe.&rdquo; She was trying to explain how Mandela had been a sellout for being too kind to white people. The argument is that no white person can understand black pain, and any criticism to anything that black racialists claim is seen as a denial of their pain. There is, of course, no such thing as white pain and speaking of it is immediately denounced as racist, or so the argument goes. This is destructive to dialogue. 5. Silver bulletsIdentifying South Africa&rsquo;s problems is fairly easy; the difficulty lies in finding solutions. Let&rsquo;s take the crisis of poverty and unemployment. We would have to admit that there is nothing that we could do today to make this problem disappear sustainably within a year. The only solution is in education and training &ndash; making sure that people are equipped to enter the labour market and to participate in the economy. In my experience, the discourse at discussions about race usually steers away from sustainable solutions to silver bullets or quick fixes. There is no silver bullet that will solve these issues, and those proposed (such as &ldquo;expropriation without compensation&rdquo;) would only exacerbate these problems.In light of the current student unrest and renewed calls for &ldquo;radical change&rdquo;, constructive dialogue is now more important than ever. The only way to achieve this would be to engage in frank and honest discussions, where we actually listen to each other with the intent of testing our own preconceived ideas and finding sustainable solutions.Roets is deputy CEO of AfriForumFollow him on Twitter at @ErnstRoets24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.