Boipelo.MereAttending the ceremony of the handing over of certificates to people with disabilities are from the left Sofia Mosikatsi (executive mayor of the JTG District Municipality), Naledi Morometsi (Small Enterprise Development Agency), Cllr Kegomoditswe Masilabela (chairperson of the Community Development Services), Estelle Dennis (Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and Thobeka Mthintelwa (special programmes coordinator of the JTG District Municipality) .Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The continued fight for the interests of people with disabilities is one of the few projects that the executive mayor of the John Taolo Gaetsewe (JTG) District Municipality, Sofia Mosikatsi, continues to highlight. The Disability Forum was launched early this year, with the aim of uniting all people with disabilities and to address their issues collectively. Through this forum the district managed to secure training for a selected group of disabled persons in the district. The group received basic business skills training with the help of the Department of Economic Development and Tourism and the Small Enterprise Development Agency (Seda) from 25 to 28 September.The training was meant to assess their competency in understanding the fundamentals of starting a small business. After exceptional performances on the course, a total of 30 trainees received certificates on Friday, 11 November, during the ceremony at the JTG Municipal Chambers.The chairperson of the Community Development Committee, Kegomoditswe Masilabele, expressed her gratitude to the partners and reiterated the municipality s support for the disabled. She praised government for making it possible for the disabled to access available opportunities. Masilabele however raised the challenge of budgetary constraints as one of the issues that makes it impossible for them to address their issues.One of the graduates, Itumeleng Mmusi, saw the course as a first step towards opening his own internet caf . Basic business skills training was beneficial for me because I can already practise to manage my personal finances. I only realised the necessity of managing funds, financial statements and balancing one s budget when I was in the course, Mmusi said.Expressing his appreciation to Seda for recommending him for the course, Mmusi promised that there is no more turning back for him as he will strive to enrol for other courses on Financial Management, Communications and Project Managements to equip himself for the kind of business that he plans to open.Another graduate, Victor Tshekedi, whose business, Vickelas Cleaning Construction and Catering Service, was registered in 2015, was fortunate enough to have been registered on the central database, which enabled him to provide catering for the certificate handover ceremony. He said the course was an eye opener and it will help his business to grow and empower other disabled people like him. Through the knowledge I had achieved, I will be able to implement other things that I did not know, he said.He applauded JTG for its improvement on supporting disabled people.He however called on and encouraged other local municipalities to follow the same route and support the disabled people in empowering themselves.Estelle Dennis of the Department of Economic Affairs promised to ensure that those who are not registered are assisted and given business opportunities. During the graduation ceremony Mosikatsi also encouraged continuous cooperation with different stakeholders on such initiatives.She concluded by promising to ensure that people with disabilities are not denied available opportunities.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.