Tammy Petersen, News24Relatives of slain officers at a memorial service (Tammy Petersen, News24). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Police officers in the Western Cape are being earmarked for advanced tactical training to boost their reactions under criminal fire, Deputy National Commissioner for Policing Lieutenant General Sehlahle Masemola said on Tuesday."It is to teach survival and to always be alert," he said at the memorial service of three officers killed in Cape Town in the past week."Firearm competency is not enough. Our police members are being killed in big numbers in this province."Masemola said police would also no longer buy single cab vehicles for patrols in the Western Cape. They would instead opt for double cabs so that at least three officers are able to travel together at any given time and act as extra backup."We currently have two officers per vehicle. The driver does the driving and the crew is supposed to look around. But do they still do that?" he asked.He claimed to have evidence that specifically female officers were often on social media instead of focusing on their work.This elicited gasps and dissatisfied grumbling from officers at the memorial.One arrestIn less than a week in Cape Town, six police officers were shot.Three - Constable Masibonge Mqwada, Constable Thanduxolo Ndiki, and Constable Amanda Ladlokova - were killed while three survived the incidents.Only one arrest has been made in connection with the shootings.Colonel Mark Adonis, the station commander of the Athlone police station where Ndiki was stationed, said the young and energetic constable was killed less than three months after being permanently employed by the police.On Saturday morning Ndiki, 30, was found on a pavement in Delft after being shot in the upper body in an apparent hijacking. He later died in hospital.His wife Sivuyisiwe is also a police officer. Ndiki was a father of two sons.Ndiki's mother Nombuyiselo Fetsha said she was very hurt and saddened by her son's death."Last year I lost my daughter to cancer and now this. I am now left with one child."High expectationsMqwada was shot and killed the same day as Ndiki in Kraaifontein while dropping off a relative.He was a humble officer who had served in the force for seven years and was a spiritual man, Mitchells Plain shift commander Lieutenant Colonel Gaylord Bezuidenhout said.Mqwada is believed to have been murdered in an attempted hijacking.He too was a father of two.Reverend PS Nqwabe said the family had had high expectations for Mqwada."He was going to build a family home. The death penalty should be brought back," he insisted.The husband of Constable Amanda Ladlokova was inconsolable during the memorial service.Impeccable service recordLadlokova, who had seven years under her belt, was shot and killed while responding to a complaint in Philippi East last Tuesday.A second officer was shot and injured in the incident and both officers' guns were stolen by three attackers.Ladlokova had an impeccable service record, her station commander, whose name was given as Colonel Payi on the memorial programme, said."She served and did her job [well] until her last day on November 21," he said."She left an indelible mark on those she worked with."Emotional provincial police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula vowed that those responsible for the murders of his members would be brought to book."This is a mass killing of our members. To have three killed in one week is a painful and traumatic experience," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.