Jeanette Chabalala. News24 Shadrack Sibiya (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former Gauteng Hawks head Shadrack Sibiya was named
as the head of Johannesburg’s new anti-corruption unit on Wednesday. Mayor
Herman Mashaba told reporters in Braamfontein that Sibiya had the integrity,
experience and courage to perform the role and restore hope to residents. "When
I took office, I declared corruption public enemy number one," he said. Mashaba
said he had been inundated with allegations, forensic reports, and questionable
tenders, all of which had been hidden from the public eye. A number
of cases were currently at advanced stages of forensic investigation and the
outcomes would be released soon. There was a deep-rooted fear that his
administration would expose the corruption, maladministration, and nepotism
that had become the order of the day under the ANC’s rule, he said. "This
is why you see such a deliberate effort by the ANC to collapse this government
in council." Sibiya
previously served in the now-defunct Scorpions as chief special investigator
and leading its Free State branch. He
became a brigadier while leading the commercial crimes unit of the Hawks,
before becoming the unit’s Gauteng head. Mashaba
expressed his confidence in Sibiya and called on him to identify tenders
awarded to relatives of City employees. Fired by Hawks head Hawks
head Berning Ntlemeza fired Sibiya in September last year for his alleged role
in the illegal deportation of five Zimbabweans in 2010. Sibiya
was found guilty of gross misconduct after a disciplinary inquiry into the
renditions. Advocate
Mxolisi Zondo found that, although Sibiya could not be placed on the scene in
Diepsloot on November 5 and 23, 2010, his cellphone records and his presence at
the Hawks offices when Zimbabwean police visited indicated that he would have
known about it. The
Zimbabwean nationals were wanted for the murder of a police officer in
Bulawayo. Three of the five were subsequently killed, allegedly by Zimbabwean
police. Hawks
head Anwa Dramat resigned in April 2015, after being implicated in the
renditions. Independent
Police Investigative Directorate head Robert McBride was suspended for
allegedly tampering with a report into the allegations. McBride's
suspension was overturned, and criminal charges against him were dropped. Sibiya
had claimed that the allegations were revenge for an investigation into murder
allegations against former police crime intelligence head Richard Mdluli.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  