Karabo Ngoepe, News24Former SARS employees Adrian Lackay and Johan Van Loggerenberg during the book launch (Karabo Ngoepe, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria- Former SARS employee Johan Van Loggerenberg says he is ready to take on the Hawks and NPA in court to clear his name.&ldquo;Hawks and NPA you must come. Our consciences are clear and we are ready,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;If you want to abuse your power to achieve a nefarious end, that nefarious end will ultimately be exposed one way or the other.&rdquo;He was speaking on Thursday night during the launch of a book he co-authored with former SARS spokesperson Adrian Lackay titled Rogue: The inside story of SARS&rsquo;s elite crime-busting unit, which tells their side of the story regarding the so called rogue unit.He said they were ready to have their day in court and expose the narrative that was created to discredit the unit.&ldquo;If it means we have to go to court to do so then we will do so. The fight is on. I&rsquo;m waiting for them,&rdquo; he said.Started with an emailSpeaking about the information that is in the book, Van Loggerenberg said intelligence operatives were involved in the saga and it all started with a &ldquo;complaint&rdquo; in the form of an email that was sent in May of 2014 by a self-confessed operative.He said he was then approached by another intelligence operative supposedly seeking to engage him to try and protect the reputation of the intelligence structure.&ldquo;He wanted to know what I knew. I call him Toby in the book. On the 20th of July 2014, two intelligence operatives met at a restaurant in the same shopping mall. The one says to the other one that he represents interests of people who wish to replace the entire leadership of SARS and the minister of finance. "Eight days later Adrian and I start receiving media enquiries and both media houses say intelligence officials put out stories about me that they wanted to publish. All this while Toby meets with me,&rdquo; he said.Van Loggerenberg said information was put before five panels of attorneys, senior advocates, a retired judge, a panel with professional people, chattered accountants, a large audit firm and all their reports were leaked to the media.&ldquo;Not a single one of those panels reflected on what I said. Ask yourself why not? What kind of power can do that? What kind of power can make a committee chaired by a retired judge ignore an email that says there are people who are trying to replace the entire leadership of SARS and the finance minister?&rdquo;He added that there was a clear script with a common thread that went through the suspensions of former Hawks head Anwar Dramat, former Gauteng Hawks head Shadrack Sibiya, suspended KZN Hawks boss Johann Booysen and IPID head Robert McBride, to them at SARS.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.