SystemPhoto: supplied Tshelenkosi High School matric pupils urged to donate their school uniform instead of tearing them up or destroying them with farewell messages. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories AS Grade 12 pupils wrote their final examinations last Friday, a local non-profit organisation, Izwi Lothando Home and Community-based Services, sought to steer this year s matriculants away from the norm of tearing up their school uniforms or using permanent markers to write farewell messages on them as a way of celebrating their final exams. The organisation approached Tshelenkosi High School pupils and urged them to donate their school uniforms after they had written their final examination rather than adhering to the popular practice of tearing it up or writing farewell messages on it. We want to promote a culture of giving and the spirit of Ubuntu among school pupils. There are many school pupils who are in lower grades who need these uniforms. As an organisation, we also wish to promote a different way of celebrating their final exams rather the norm of partying, the organisation's founder Phila Zulu said. School principal Nosipho Mpanza said she was surprised by the pupils actions which she said were a sign of maturity and that she felt proud by this generous deed. I was surprised by our pupils because this action showed that they see the importance of giving back to those less fortunate than themselves. As a school, we would also like to thank Phila for encouraging and assisting the pupils in accomplishing what they set out to do, Mpanza said. She said such an act goes a long way in assisting those less privileged. She made an example about pupils who change schools due to circumstances beyond their control but end up in a predicament as they cannot afford the uniform of their new school. This act of kindness makes those pupils who cannot afford the new uniforms feel welcomed in the new school and this is important for their self-esteem that is why we are so proud of our pupils for doing this, Mpanza. She said 89 matric pupils had pledged to donate their school uniforms and that she hopes next year more pupils will pledge to do the same. She said some of the recipients had pledged to pay it forward once they reach their final year of schooling. A mother of one the recipients, Makhosi Mweli, whose son will be in Grade 8 in the school in 2017, said she is very grateful for the donation as she was worried about what she would do to ensure that her son, Nhlakanipho, has the uniform. God bless all the pupils who donated their uniforms. Education is very important that is why I am grateful for this because now my son can continue with his schooling, Mweli said. The Lindelani based mother of three who depends on a social grant said she urged her own son to take good care of the uniform so that he too could hand it over to someone who needs it. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.