Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tax season is in full swing with the 25 November deadline for regular, individual taxpayers almost here. In addition to your legal obligation to do so, one of the most compelling reasons to file your tax return is because you might have overpaid or overestimated your taxes and the South African Revenue Services (SARS) might be paying you back some extra cash. This is especially true for those who did not work for the entire tax year, changed jobs during the period, received allowances, contributed to medical aid and / or retirement funds or earned income from commission, rental income, as independent contractors or from running a business as a sole proprietor in a personal capacity. This unbudgeted income will mean extra cash in your pockets and the options on how to spend it are endless. Here’s a list of what you could spend your tax refund on – whether you are looking to spend it sensibly, or on your family, on a splurge, or on your next adventure! Sensible choices For those who want to use their tax refund in a smart and sensible way there are numerous options that your bank account, debt and financial advisor will applaud you for:   Splurge choices Extra cash means extra spending, and you finally have enough money to buy or do what you’ve had your eye on for ages. Here are some ideas about what you can spoil yourself a little and splurge your tax refund on:    Family choices With extra cash in hand why not spoil the family, treat the kids or your special partner? Here are some ideas:   Adventurous choices If your adrenalin levels are itching for an adventure, there is no better time to indulge in your interests than when you have extra cash from your tax refund.   Creative choices For those who tend to be more on the arty side, there are options for you to participate in your hobby or tune your talent; here are some ways for you to  spend your tax refund:  Want to get the most of your tax return but unsure of how to do it? Filing your taxes can be complicated and many people struggle with understanding what needs to be declared, how and where. TaxTim is here to help by offering the ease of online filing (in your own time) with the assistance of a tax expert named ‘Tim’! This incredibly useful website is your own digital tax assistant that helps you complete your tax return quickly, easily and correctly, by guiding you step-by-step through a series of questions in plain English. TaxTim is specifically designed to uncover all your available tax deductions, which helps to reduce your tax liability and maximise any refund due to you. Get handy how-to’s, convenient tax calculators and answers to any tricky tax questions too. Register now and file your tax return before the 25 November deadline: www.taxtim.com