Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally in Green Bay. (Evan Vucci, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On Women “You know, it really doesn’t matter what the media write as long as you’ve got a young, and beautiful, piece of ass.” And then on women again “I cherish women. I want to help women. I’m going to be able to do things for women that no other candidate would be able to do.” Obama 'is the founder of ISIS' At a rally in Florida, Trump said: "ISIS is honouring President Obama. He is the founder of ISIS. And, I would say the co-founder would be crooked Hillary Clinton.” Sending Hillary to jail During the second presidential debate, Trump said if he were to become president, he would seek to prosecute Clinton over her use of a private email server as secretary of state. In response, Clinton said, "It's just awfully good that someone with the temperament of Donald Trump is not in charge of the law in our country." "Because you'd be in jail," Trump replied. On banning Muslims Calling for a “complete shutdown of Muslims entering the US," Trump, in a post on his website in December said: "Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine… Our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life." About Mexican migrants "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best…They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists…" On dating his daughter "I've said if Ivanka weren't my daughter, perhaps I'd be dating her" Trump said on an episode of "The View". On his hands and um... other body parts “My fingers are long and beautiful, as, it has been well documented, are various other parts of my body." This entire conversation... ...which holds the infamous ‘grab them by the pussy’ moment. On South Africa As I have long been saying, South Africa is a total - and very dangerous - mess. Just watch the evening news (when not talking weather). — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 20 April 2015   Are you following the US Election? Where in SA will you be watching? Who do you want to win? Send us your thoughts! For all the latest updates on the US 2016 Election, head over to our special report page. We will be bringing you live updates throughout the night, straight into results, on 8 November. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  