Amanda Khoza, News24 Pupils at Randfontein High School in Johannesburg donated their old school shoes to less fortunate pupils at a school nearby. The pupils also wrote messages and placed them inside the shoes and wished their recipients the best of luck with their futures. (Pic: RHS Facebook Page) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; After they put their pens down at the end of their last exam on Tuesday, a group of Gauteng matric pupils took off their shoes.More than 200 matrics at Randfontein High School on the West Rand donated old and new school shoes, their uniforms, and stationery to less fortunate pupils as a sign of gratitude.The brains behind the gesture, English teacher and head of the matric grade, Jason Fisher, said when he was in matric, he did the same for other, less fortunate pupils.&ldquo;I went to St Barnabas and I can remember we had to take off our shoes before we could collect our last matric exam paper. We walked back barefoot to our dormitory.&rdquo;Fisher said he started working with the current group of matrics when they entered Grade 8. The group was whittled down from 230 to 204.He told the group when they started their high school career that they should begin with the end in mind.&nbsp;&ldquo;This year I felt that God had been good to the school and we needed to do a tactical thing where we could pay it forward. Just before the exams began, I announced that gratitude would be shown in the manner of giving away shoes, uniforms, and stationery to the less fortunate.&rdquo;Fisher said he knew a teacher at a school in Brandvlei, where pupils were struggling.&ldquo;This is a great way to bless this school. Some parents brought new school shoes. Others left their old ones, but they are in superb condition.&ldquo;Inside the shoes we put messages in the shape of footprints which read, &lsquo;You will never know how tough matric is, until you have walked in their shoes. We are praying for your success&rsquo;.&rdquo;After posting the message on the school&rsquo;s Facebook page, the classes of 1989 and 1999 donated more school shoes.&ldquo;Out of the five years that we have spent together with the pupils, I am hoping that they will remember that it&rsquo;s better to give than to receive.&rdquo;English teacher, Alex West, said she expected nothing less from the matrics.&ldquo;They are trendsetters in motion. We are a quintile five school, but many of our children come from underprivileged homes, but you would never say because they carry themselves with so much pride and dignity.&rdquo;West said this was what the school tried to instil in its pupils.&ldquo;It is not their past that matters, but what they are doing about it. We want them to own their space,&rdquo; West said.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.