Lungiso Public School Principal Sebenzile Hoko (front left) and teacher Sithembele Veveza with Grade 12 learners (from left) Nkosikhona Lungisa, Lusanda Tshemese, Sindiswa Mayinje, Palesa Khumalo, Nolusindiso Cekiso and Sesethu Maredze. Photo: SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Kouga high school has been employing drastic tactics to improve its matric results. Lungiso Public School at KwaNomzamo, Humansdorp, has for the past three years held matric camps which require all their Grade 12 learners to remain on the school grounds for the duration of their final examinatio ns.The programme has enabled the school to improve its matric pass rate from a dismal 47% in 2012 to more than 80% over the past three years. The school is aiming for a 90% minimum this year.School principal Sebenzile Hoko said the success of the programme relied on the commitment of the teachers, who receive nothing extra to supervise learners after hours, and a high level of discipline from those writing. Our school does not have a hostel, which means learners have to make do with classrooms as sleeping quarters. Together with the School Governing Body and parents, we try to make the environment as homely as possible for the youngsters, he said.Hoko said the school adopted the radical approach to give their learners the best chance they could and to win back the confidence of the community in the school. There are many social factors which impede on learners ability to study when they are at home, he said. The daily programme consists of physical training, prayer services and study sessions.Meals are prepared and served on site three times a day and this is mostly where the school needs a hand. We serve a poor community, which means we have to rely on good Samaritans to ensure that no learner writes on an empty stomach, said Hoko.Kouga Executive Mayor Elza van Lingen congratulated the school on their efforts to improve education. What they have achieved, is phenomenal. We applaud all involved in this initiative to help ensure that poverty does not become an educational impediment for our children, she said.People who wish to help, can contact Hoko at 073 206 6887.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.