Amanda Khoza, News24 General Shadrack Sibiya (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Former head of the Gauteng Hawks General Shadrack Sibiya has dismissed as a rumour reports that he was expected to be appointed as head of the Johannesburg city council's forensic department. "I don't know about it and nor have I received anything in writing about the matter," Sibiya told News24 on Tuesday. His dismissal comes just hours after the Daily Maverick reported that Sibiya would be working for Herman Mashaba's DA-led council. "The City of Johannesburg has scored a major coup and will shortly announce the appointment of former Gauteng Hawks head Shadrack Sibiya to head up the city's forensic unit," it was reported on Tuesday afternoon. But Sibiya said this was not the first time rumours like this had surfaced. "The last time it was reported that I was going to work in the Eastern Cape," he said.Found guilty of misconductNews24 previously reported that the former Gauteng Hawks head was fired by Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza for his role in the illegal deportation of five Zimbabweans.Sibiya was found guilty of gross misconduct after a disciplinary inquiry into the renditions was conducted by advocate Mxolisi Zondo.Zondo found that although Sibiya could not be placed on the scene in Diepsloot on November 5, 2010, and on November 23, 2010, his cellphone records and his presence at the Hawks offices when Zimbabwean police visited indicated that he would have known about it.The Zimbabwean nationals were wanted by police in that country for the murder of a police officer in Bulawayo.Three of the five were subsequently killed, allegedly by Zimbabwean police.Previously, former Hawks head Anwa Dramat resigned after being implicated in the renditions, and Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) head Robert McBride was suspended for allegedly tampering with a report into the allegations.Turning the tide on corruptionSibiya had claimed that the allegations were revenge for an investigation into murder allegations against former intelligence boss Richard Mdluli.City of Johannesburg mayoral spokesperson Tony Taverna-Turisan was not immediately available to comment on the report. However, News24 understands that the City of Johannesburg is expected to make an announcement "of national importance on the fight against corruption in the City of Johannesburg" on Wednesday morning. A statement from Mashaba's office gives little detail on what the announcement will be but fuels speculation that Sibiya might be the man for the job. "Strong action is required to turn the tide on deep-rooted corruption in our city, which has been swept under the carpet by previous administrations. At this press conference the mayor will be announcing a figure of national interest to head up the city's corruption-busting unit," reads the statement.The briefing is expected to take place in Braamfontein on Wednesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.