Karabo Ngoepe, News24An enormous cobra clings on while a snake catcher tries to pull it out of a toilet in a flat in Pretoria. (Anton Meijer) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system.&ldquo;It looks like it came through the drainage system and is hanging in the pipes,&rdquo; snake catcher Barry Greenshields said. &ldquo;The snake was found inside the toilet of one of the apartments but we couldn&rsquo;t remove it. It has since gone back inside the pipe system which is very ziggy zaggy.&rdquo;A resident of Glenletta Courts in Lynnwood Glen, Anton Meijer, told News24 that the slithery reptile was discovered at about 09:00 by the occupants of the flat below his. He said the occupants called Greenshields to try and remove it.&ldquo;He started pulling it from the toilet but it was clinging to something... The more he pulled, it got agitated. It went back into the drainage system,&rdquo; he said.Greenshields now has a daunting task of going into people's flats and requesting to check their toilets for the serpent. He added that he has been catching snouted cobras for a long time but had never seen anything like the one on the loose.&ldquo;I do snake removals all over Pretoria East, but this is one of the most bizarre ones that I have come across. It's big and strong. It's by far the biggest I have seen,&rdquo; he said. Greenshields has advised residents to keep the toilet lids closed to ensure the snake does not wander into other parts of their houses and to restrict it to the drainage system. &ldquo;I'm telling people to keep the toilets closed. If the lid is closed it will be like a barrel and it won't come out but if it finds an opening it might come out and continue its journey into their houses,&rdquo; he said. Meijer said it would be very difficult for him to sleep at night knowing there was an uninvited guest slithering through the drainage pipes.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.