Mahlatse Gallens, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - "Put your money where your mouth is and work with government to create jobs," the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in Gauteng said on Wednesday in a challenge to 81 CEOs who were recently part of an initiative in support of the finance minister.The league has challenged the 81 CEOs to reverse the 27.1% unemployment rate. Unemployment figures, the highest in 13 years, were announced by South Africa's Statistician General Pali Lehohla on Tuesday. The league has accused the CEOs of not investing in the country while "ploughing billions out of the country's natural and human resources". The CEOs recently pledged support for Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan ahead of his mini-budget speech and a week before he appeared in court for fraud. The charges were subsequently dropped. The Gauteng ANCYL said the bosses must prove their "untested claims of proclaiming love for the country and save it from demise" by supporting entrepreneurs to create jobs. "We therefore call on big business to empower youth and black-owned SMEs through their skills and enterprise development spend, ensuring the creation of sustainable companies for jobs," the league said.Funding for free education"For our economy to thrive its current monopolistic nature must be eradicated so other players can find space and create the necessary additional jobs." The league also wants the CEOs to help fund free education as they are beneficiaries of skilled labour. "The country's literacy levels, especially amongst the historically disadvantaged, leave [much] to be desired. It goes without saying that a populous that is not only unemployed but unemployable is not desirable for the country's future." The Fees Commission on Wednesday expressed disappointment with the low level of participation by corporates, industry and the banking sector. "There has been regrettably little participation by the resource-rich entities such as corporates, industry, the banking sector or organised labour, all of which might have been expected to contribute as the production of graduates and an academically prepared workforce is to their direct benefit," it said in its interim report to President Jacob Zuma.&nbsp;The league says it will be contacting the representatives of the 81 CEOs to schedule a meeting. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.