Jeff Wicks, News24 Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The EFF has slammed the proposed National Minimum
wage of R3500 per month, announced by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on
Sunday, saying that the move favours business at the expense of workers. Ramaphosa
announced the findings of the National Minimum Wage (NMW) report. Among them, is a proposal of an NMW of R3500 per month or R20 per hour. “The
proposal will not lead to the desired resolution of the problem of inequality. Instead, it is going to institutionalise these
inequalities at low poverty wages,” EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a
statement. “Any
minimum wage that is below R4500 will not make any difference to the lives of
workers or the resolution of inequality in wages and actual living conditions.
Above all, wages of South African workers have higher dependency ratio whereby
an individual income has stretched high and unusual number of dependencies,” he
said. - Read more here: 'We wanted a minimum wage that would make an impact' - Ramaphosa “We further reject the idea that
there must be exceptions for farmworkers and domestic workers. We reiterate
that no one, from petrol attendants, security guards, farm and domestic
workers, to cashiers in all big retail stores; no one must earn less than R4,
500 per month,” he said. “The EFF
will not support Ramaphosa's proposal and will mobilise all workers to reject
it in favour of a much more meaningful National Minimum Wage of no less than
R4500.” Lonmin ‘could have paid more’ Already
in the Marikana commission, it was proven that Lonmin could, taken its profits, afford to pay workers the demanded
minimum wage of R12,500, the EFF said. This was four years ago already. The party said the process
of minimum wage is long overdue and
requires a genuine, aggressive and speedy resolution to exert discipline on
private capital which has taken advantage of people’s  lives for far too long. The ANC, however, welcomed the announcement. Spokesperson
Zizi Kodwa said: “The African National Congress notes and welcomes the release
of the Nedlac Advisory Panel on the National Minimum Wage. We believe this goes
a long way to giving effect to the electoral mandate to the ANC government to
introduce a National Minimum Wage.” “The
recommendations contained in the panel's report are sound, credible and clearly
supported by clear evidence, including
technical submissions made by organised
business, organised labour, government
and community constituencies,” Kodwa added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  