Mahlatse GallensANCYL leader Collen Maine (File, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) has thrown down the gauntlet to those calling for President Jacob Zuma to step down, saying no one can remove him. "If you have friends in the ANC saying Zuma is going to be removed, it is not going to happen," ANCYL president Collen Maine said.Maine was speaking ahead of the ANC national working committee (NWC) meeting that got underway on Monday at the party's headquarters. The meeting is expected to discuss the Public Protector's State of Capture report which was released last week. It will also discuss the ANC national executive members (NEC) who have joined the growing calls from party veterans, business and civil society for Zuma to resign. &nbsp;The league has dismissed the report as nothing but gossip and innuendos, saying former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela was being used by the DA to bring Zuma down. "Unfortunately for her, President Zuma is still the president today, and nobody in the ANC is going to remove [him] until his term ends in 2017," Maine said.Leadership 'breaking ranks'He also slammed those within the ANC NEC calling for the President to step down.The latest was ANC MP Mathole Motshekga, who called on Zuma to do the right thing, following chief whip Jackson Mthembu's call for the entire NEC to step down. The league said this was part of "ill-discipline that continues to engulf the party". It wants the ANC to take disciplinary measures against Mthembu. "As the ANCYL we have noted a growing trend of ANC leadership breaking ranks and speaking outside the structures."It accused the ANC of double standards, citing the party's censoring of Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association president Kebby Maphatsoe who called ANC veterans "empty tins". The ANCYL said the party should enforce discipline without fear or favour."The ANC has never issued a statement against Jackson but to do it on Comrade Kebby...[sic] This behaviour of the ANC communication might help and play to the narrative that there are groupings in the ANC NEC, thus others are shielded and others are responded to."Nothing wrong with the Guptas The league says the State of Capture report should not send the party into panic. Maine said he was surprised that he and secretary general Gwede Mantashe were mentioned in the report even though they were not officials in any state institution. He was asked if he had been offered a Cabinet post or financial reward by the family."I do engage with everybody including the Guptas, whether I have been to Saxonwold it is not the business of anybody. It would have been a private matter," Maine said. He said there was no law forcing him to declare if he had been to the Gupta family home or not."I am not forced by any law to declare where I go. I will go anywhere I want to go. If I want to go to the Guptas, I will go, because I am not prohibited by any law."Maine said he had received an invitation to attend the ANN7 South African of the Year awards which he would accept. He said leadership had the responsibility to engage with everyone including the Guptas."We will engage them. If that is capturing, engaging with stakeholders, then I am captured but I am captured by responsibility of the youth league. That includes talking to everyone including those you are problematising."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.