(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Helsinki - Finnish authorities said on Monday they plan to
maintain culling of the protected wolf population to prevent illegal poaching,
despite opposition from environmentalists. Fifty-five
out of Finland's 290 grey wolves were culled during the 2015-2016 hunting
season, and the Finnish Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry said culling
needed to continue. "The
aim is to increase the wolf population's acceptability especially amongst local
people living in the wolf territories and to diminish... illegal
poaching," the ministry said in a statement. The
decision came after two-month-long trial culls in 2015 and 2016, during which licensed
hunters were allowed to seek permits for killing individual wolves. But in
addition to the 55 wolves culled over the winter, 23 animals died for other
reasons such as traffic accidents, poaching, or were shot by police to protect
people. Ministerial
adviser Sami Niemi admitted the high number of other deaths had caught the
authorities by surprise and as a result, the licensing system was being
modified before hunting could continue. Niemi
said the ministry was now to define an annual maximum for all wolf deaths to
prevent excessive culling. Environmentalists
have heavily criticised Finland for culling an animal strictly protected by the
European Union's legislation. ‘Wrong wolves shot’ "The
numbers have been significant and the wrong wolf individuals have been shot in
these hunts", the Finnish Nature League's manager Sami Saynevirta told
AFP. He was
referring to the estimated 20 reproducing leader wolves that were shot during
the latest cull, although the aim was to target young individuals. But the
ministry said that before the trial culls, when hunting was not allowed, the
wolf population reached its record low at between 120 and 135 animals in 2013,
mainly due to poaching. After
the culls, Finland's Natural Resources
Institute estimated there were between 200 and 235 wolves left in the country,
but new counts are needed to define how many wolf packs were able to reproduce
this year. The
European protection rules allow some exceptions, such as hunting wolves in
Finland's northern reindeer herding areas and more restricted hunting of
individual wolves that attack livestock elsewhere in the country. Hunting
is a widespread tradition in Finland. About 300 000 people register each year
for permits, one of the highest per capita rates in Europe. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  