Jenni Evans, News24Nyanga (File, AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A 13-year-old girl who was gang-raped in Nyanga last week has been placed in a safe house after a video of her began circulating on neighbourhood phones, said Western Cape ANC spokesperson Pat Lekker on Tuesday.According to Lekker, whose constituency the crime took place in, the girl was on her way to the shop when she got wind of a video that had been filmed of her walking in the area. She ran back home and did not want to go out again. Lekker said this was after a man claiming to be a journalist arrived at the girl's home asking to speak to her. He could not produce any proof, not even a notebook, to show that he was a journalist. He left, but two other people also came to the house to ask about her. Lekker said this raised concerns for the girl's safety because some of the people accused of being involved in the attack are still at large.7 arrestedAccording to police, the girl had been walking alone on Robert Sobukwe Road on November 11 at about 20:00 when she was abducted by a man who took her to a shack where he and his friends repeatedly raped her.&nbsp; They kept her there the whole night and let her go the next morning. Seven men between the ages of 18 and 20 were arrested on November 16 and appeared in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on November 18.They were ordered to stay behind bars until their next appearance on Friday. Lekker said that it has since emerged that the girl's home was not suitable for her because of circumstances there. She had not been attending school either.'She asked for some toys'The girl was not sleeping properly, and would suddenly wake up petrified, leading Lekker to believe she was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. Questions had also been raised over why she was not receiving proper counselling, and after an&nbsp;intervention, this was arranged.Lekker said that after further intervention, police took the girl to a safe house on Monday night. He said it was only then that the girl could finally try and get some sleep. "She asked for some toys," said Lekker. "For her even a face cloth is a big deal. This child has been through a lot." Comment was not immediately available from the social development department.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.