One of the buses involved in the collision. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories UPDATEA full-scale investigation is under way into accident involving three MyCiTi buses at Cape Town Civic Centre which left 37 passengers and a driver injured this morning (Tuesday 8) . The injured people were taken to Barnard Memorial Hospital and Somerset Hospital for medical check-ups. Two passengers are being treated for spinal and head injuries. Preliminary indications are that the other passengers sustained minor injuries and are suffering from shock. Brett Herron, Mayco member for transport, says he was notified of the accident&nbsp; around 08:30 this morning and he immediately called for a full-scale investigation into the causes of the incident. &ldquo;I can confirm that the bus driver who allegedly caused the pile-up at the Civic Centre station has been suspended, pending the accident investigation and a disciplinary inquiry.&rdquo; In addition, the City will ensure that the vehicle operating company (VOC) that operates the D04 route between Mitchell's Plain West and the Civic Centre compiles a comprehensive accident report. &ldquo;This report must be submitted to myself and the Commissioner of Transport for Cape Town before the close of business on Friday 11 November. The safety of our passengers is non-negotiable. As such, we will use the findings of the VOC&rsquo;s investigation, as well as the outcome of the investigation conducted by the South African Police Service (SAPS), to take further action against the VOC if warranted. We will use the outcome of these investigations to determine how such incidents can be prevented in future,&rdquo; says Herron. The pile-up happened at about 08:20 this morning when the D04 bus from Kapteinsklip in Michell's Plain drove into a stationary bus at the Civic Centre station in Hertzog Boulevard. Due to the impact from behind, the T01 bus that operates between Dunoon, Table View, and the city, hit another stationary bus &ndash; the A01 bus operating on the airport route. &ldquo;The passengers on the T01 bus had already disembarked at the time of the incident and the A01 bus had a few passengers on board. The D04 bus was full, given that it happened in the peak period. I sincerely wish all of those who were injured a speedy recovery. I once again want to assure the MyCiTi commuters that we will hold those responsible accountable,&rdquo; says Herron. The MyCiTi buses operating to and from the Civic Centre station were delayed for about an hour as a result of the collisions. The traffic along Hertzog Boulevard was also severely affected. &ldquo;The City is committed to providing a world-class public transport service to our residents, with passenger safety as a top priority. Accountability is an indispensable component in ensuring that the VOCs operating the MyCiTi buses are upholding the prescribed service levels. "As is stipulated in their contracts with the City, VOCs are required to report all road accidents to the SAPS and the City. As is the case with any other MyCiTi-related incident, we will ensure that due process is followed in this case as well,&rdquo; Herron. The MyCiTi operations personnel are currently at the hospitals gathering information of all of those who were injured. &nbsp; Several commuters were injured this morning when three MyCiti buses collided at the Civic Centre, on the corner of Heerengracht Street and Hertzog Boulevard.ER24 paramedics, along with various other services, responded to the scene after receiving reports that three buses had collided.Russel Meiring, ER24 spokesperson, says on arrival, paramedics found the three buses parked on the side of the road with the occupants spread across the scene.&ldquo;A triage area was set up to assess and treat the patients. Upon assessment, paramedics discovered that 26 people had sustained minor to moderate injuries. Fortunately, no serious or fatal injuries were reported on the scene. The patients were treated for their injuries and thereafter transported to various hospitals in the area for further treatment.&rdquo; says Meiring. He added that traffic was heavily affected due to the collision. Local authorities will be conducting an investigation into the cause of the collision. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.