Karabo Ngoepe, News24An enormous cobra clings on while a snake catcher tries to pull it out of a toilet in a flat in Pretoria. (Anton Meijer) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - As days go by with the poisonous snouted cobra still on the loose at a Pretoria block of flats, residents are now considering taking drastic action to ensure their safety."People are talking about taking matters into their own hands now. They are gatvol," one resident who asked not to be named told News24."There [is] talk about using pool acid, Jeyes Fluid and hot water in the drains to ensure the snake is dead."It has now been seven days since the slithery predator made an unannounced visit into one of the toilet bowls at Glenletta Court in Lynnwood Glen. The snake was discovered on Thursday morning having taken refuge in the toilet bowl of one of the apartments. It was believed it entered through the drainage system.A video was recorded of the poisonous snake stuck in the toilet bowl. Barry Greenshields, the snake catcher who was tasked with capturing the serpent after it was spotted, tried to remove it but it was hanging on to something inside. The snake then went back inside the bowl before disappearing.The snake has not been seen since then and it has been a waiting game for residence.Lack of foodCaretaker Eva Panayotakis told News24 that the snake has still not been found, but they were not losing hope."We just have to keep checking if it does reappear," she said.Greenshields has expressed concern regarding the plans residents have to kill the snake. He said they have used numerous techniques to locate it but those attempts have not been successful."We have put cameras in the pipes to look for it. Residents are still worried and some of them are feeling like if it comes up they want to kill it which is something I don't want. I hope he has left through the pipes," said Greenshields.He added that lack of food for the creature might result in restricted movement. He said despite snakes having the ability to go for weeks on end without eating, at a certain point the cobra will need to eat."He might become less active and might move less in a bid to reserve energy. He might move around to find a frog to eat," he said.Another resident who also asked not to be named confirmed that talk in the complex has been revolving around ways to kill the deadly snake.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.