Jenni Evans, News24 Ronaldo van Rooyen, 34, and Tafiq Ibrahim, 26. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The brother of murdered Kuils River mother Zarah Hector says their family simply wants closure and that the constant delays in the case against her suspected killers are frustrating them. A pre-trial conference was held in the Western Cape High Court on Friday. Ronaldo van Rooyen and Tawfeeq Ibrahim were arrested after Hector disappeared from her work at the Oostenberg Lodge in Kuils River in March, setting off a panicked search by her family and friends. Her brother Brendan Hector told News24 that the case was again postponed on Friday, this time to February 3. "It is a snag all the time. Postponed, postponed, postponed. We just want the closure. It's frustrating." However, as long as the accused were behind bars and off the streets, "it's okay for us". Her picture was circulated widely after she was last seen in her boyfriend's BMW Z3 on March 14. There were pleas from her family and police to report any sightings of the 33-year-old receptionist, who even left her handbag behind at work. During the agonising wait for news, her family was taunted by claims on Facebook that she had run off with a boyfriend. The BMW was later found stripped down in Observatory. Her body was found wrapped in canvas in the Groot Drakenstein mountains of Paarl. Van Rooyen and Ibrahim face charges of murder, vehicle robbery, and defeating the ends of justice. They are accused of bludgeoning her to death with a hammer in Van Rooyen's garage. They allegedly wanted to steal the BMW, as she allegedly owed Van Rooyen a lot of money. This claim was made in Ibrahim's police statement, but had not been tested in court yet. In previous court appearances, it emerged that they still needed to get legal representation. The State alleges the men tried to sell the car for R5 000, but after failing to find a buyer, dumped it in Observatory. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  