Jeanette Chabalala, News24(Lerato Sejake, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Residents in Alexandra have been hard hit by flash floods in Johannesburg this week.WATCHJohannesburg - While some residents of the Setswetla informal settlement in Alexandra expressed joy that President Jacob Zuma was expected to visit on Tuesday, others said his presence was not going to make a difference.Nomusa Khumalo she was expecting Zuma to help victims of last week's flash floods. "It's raining and these people don't know where to hide their heads at night. We just hope his visit will change their lives. "When it rains my mother doesn't sit inside the house. She stands outside and says she'd rather be taken by floods outside her home."Another resident, Egnes Manganyi, said Zuma's visit was not going to make a difference."A lot of people have lost their homes, furniture and some lost their lives, we don't think he will do anything to help us.Visit to missing child's home"It's okay that he is coming to see what has happened in the community, but we doubt he is going to change anything."Zuma was expected to visit the family of missing 3-year-old Everite Chauke.Everite, her father Shadrick Chauke, and her mother were in their shack on Wednesday afternoon when it started raining.When water began filling their home, which is near the Jukskei River, they climbed a tree.Chauke held on to his daughter. Her mother was on another branch."The branch broke and the child fell into the water. He tried for dear life to try and rescue his child, but she disappeared into the water," Richard Makondo, who spoke on behalf of the family, previously told News24.Chauke jumped into the water, but was forced to swim back without her."When he swam back to the tree where his wife was, he thought she was missing too," Makondo said.She was, however, still holding on to the tree. Gift of the Givers has been assisting the community with clothes and food. (Lerato Sejake, News24)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.