Jenna Etheridge, News24 A picture taken by Ian Renecle showing the state of Blouberg beach following a Guy Fawkes Party. (Supplied)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Capetonians have been asked to use common sense during Guy Fawkes celebrations at the weekend, as officials gear up for any eventuality. Residents may discharge their fireworks at 12 approved sites across the city on Saturday, until 23:00. Law enforcement and emergency services will oversee these sites, said the city's safety and security mayoral committee member JP Smith. In 2015 nearly 21 000 people used these sites. A total of 16 injuries were reported on the night and officers issued 16 fines for infringements. Smith asked that people be careful when setting off fireworks, especially around children. "I'll remind the public that it is illegal to have anyone younger than 16 discharge fireworks. It is also illegal to buy fireworks from unregistered vendors." Challenging day In residential areas city officials would focus on complaints of people setting off fireworks illegally. Last year metro police dealt with 309 of these complaints. Law enforcement was also stepping up operations to clamp down on illegal fireworks vendors. More than 800 boxes of fireworks had been confiscated by Thursday morning. "Guy Fawkes is arguably one of our most challenging days. We are inundated with complaints from the public about fireworks in their neighbourhoods, terrorised pets, and of course the blatant assault of innocent people by marauding gangs who derive great pleasure from targeting their victims with paint, eggs and even faeces," Smith said. "I think it might be a blessing that this ridiculous tradition falls on a Saturday this year, which means that law-abiding residents who are forced to run the gauntlet between home, school and work are spared the indignity this time round." Residents can find a list of the designated sites on the city's website. The illegal sale or use of fireworks can be reported to the metro police call centre on 0860 POLICE (765 423) or to the South African Police Service on 10111. Emergencies can be directed via the city's public emergency call centre on 107 from a landline or 021 480 7700 from a cellphone. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  