Jenni Evans, News24 Afrikanerbond chairperson Jan Bosman (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - EFF leader Julius Malema has a "dangerous
vendetta" against white people that is a threat to national security, the
Afrikanerbond said on Monday. "He is undermining our constitutional values, including a non-racial
society and the democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom,"
said Afrikanerbond chairperson Jan Bosman in a statement after Malema appeared
in the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court. "His comments not only threaten personal safety and security, but also
national security," said Bosman. Malema appeared at the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court for allegedly
encouraging landless supporters to find vacant land and settle on it. He was charged in terms of the apartheid-era Riotous Assemblies Act but the
case was postponed to June 2017. He was in the Newcastle Magistrate's Court on November 7 on a similar charge. His lawyer Tumi Mokwena said Malema intends challenging the validity of the
1956 law at the Constitutional Court. #FeesMustFall
unrest After his court appearance on Monday Malema told supporters: "When we take
over power, Afrikaner males, you will know your place." He told Afrikaners to pray to their ancestors for the Economic Freedom Fighters
not to come into power. Calling Afrikaners "visitors" to South Africa, he said, "These
Afrikaner males must know we are not scared of them.... We can take each other
toe-to-toe." He first called on supporters to occupy unoccupied land on December 16, 2014
and made similar remarks in Newcastle in June during the party's freedom
charter rally. Bosman also blamed the EFF for the Fees Must Fall unrest on university
campuses. "At these campuses the initial motive was support for the #FeesMustFall
campaign, only later did it become an opportunity to encourage racial
hatred," continued Bosman. Bosman said the EFF leadership would have to take full responsibility for
inciting such rhetoric against white people. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  