Robert Mugabe. (Jekesai Njiklzana, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Outgoing United States President Barack Obama has extended sanctions against Zimbabwe by at least another year, a report says.Harare &ndash; Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has summoned security heavyweights following the release of a succession dossier dubbed "Blue Ocean Strategy" by suspected war veterans allegedly aligned to Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a report said on Friday.&nbsp;According to NewsDay, the military was behind the dossier, and was reportedly planning on using unscrupulous means to defeat the Generation 40 (G40) faction, allegedly allied to First Lady Grace Mugabe.Unnamed sources claimed that a nervous Mugabe hosted a number of lawmakers to discuss the alleged file by the war veterans. The sources were quoted as saying that the meeting went on until late on Wednesday as Mugabe wanted plans on how to stop the ongoing factional wars ravaging his party. The "Blue Ocean strategy", was allegedly compiled by the intelligence services, and detailed divergent plans to "restore the party from a cartel of youthful politicians", the report said.War veterans secretary general Victor Matemadanda confirmed the existence of such a dossier, but claimed that the it was compiled by the G40 faction.Rumour-mongering&nbsp;He said that the group intended on using it to mislead Mugabe, 92, into believing that the ex-liberation fighters wanted him gone. "The Blue Ocean thing is their creation. It is what they are using to get the president angry about us. It is sad that in the ruling party, decisions are being made based on rumour mongering," Matemadanda was quoted saying. The ruling Zanu-PF party has been riddled with warring factions for time immemorial, as party leaders position themselves to eventually succeed the nonagenarian.Among the possible names in the looming battle to take over&nbsp;are Mugabe's wife Grace, 50, and his two vice presidents, Phelekezela Mphoko and Mnangagwa.&nbsp;Reports indicated that a group of Young Turks, G40, was pushing for Grace to be the next deputy president, thus, positioning her to eventually succeed the ailing president. Meanwhile, the war veterans have remained vocal about their unyielding support to vice president Mnangagwa.Bloodshed&nbsp;The former freedom fighters claimed that Mnangagwa was the next in line to take over the presidency, adding that their decision to endorse him was "irreversible".They also allegedly threatened bloodshed should Mnangagwa's bid to succeed Mugabe fail.However, Mugabe recently warned the&nbsp;war veterans, saying they must "tread" carefully as he would react with brutal force against "dissidents".Mugabe reminded the former liberation fighters of one of the country's most brutal genocides after independence, saying that he would not hesitate to once more crush "rebellion". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.