Amanda Khoza, News24A screengrab showing Vicki Momberg speaking on her phone. (Screengrab, eNCA) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The South African Human Rights Commission on Tuesday confirmed that it has taken racist ranting motorist, Vicki Momberg, to the Equality Court for hate speech. &nbsp;The commission said it has been aware of the issue as early as February after the police officer involved in the incident lodged a complaint.&nbsp;South Africans reacted with outrage after eNCA released a video of a visibly upset and highly charged Momberg after a smash-and-grab incident in Johannesburg.In the clip, she is reportedly seen clutching a phone and shouting, "One kaffir is bad enough. This happens all the time, all the time. The kaffirs here in Joburg are terrible. I'm so sick of it."The video reportedly shows police arriving on the scene and attempting to defuse the situation.She seems to get more agitated and is heard saying, "The calibre of blacks in this town vary from the calibre of blacks in Durban. They're opinionated, they're arrogant, and they're just plain and simple useless. I am happy for a white person to assist me or a coloured person or an Indian person. I do not want a black person to assist me."A police officer can reportedly be heard saying he is trying to assist.She responds, "Let me tell you something. This is the type of police force we have got. We got a low calibre people working. If I see a black person, I will drive them over. If I have a gun, I will shoot everyone."SAHRC spokesperson Isaac Mangena said the commission was approached by the police officer in February. &ldquo;We have as part of our investigation consulted with him and considered the evidence presented including the video material which has now gone viral. Having done so, and given our abiding concerns over race based hate speech, we instituted proceedings in the Equality Court during March. We are waiting for the court,&rdquo; said Mangena. This month the Equality Court fined Port Shepstone&rsquo;s Penny Sparrow R150 000 for her Facebook rant where she likened black people to monkeys. Sports promoter Velaphi Khumalo also reportedly received a final warning at his disciplinary hearing at the Gauteng government's department of arts and culture, where he works, for making racist remarks and Economist Chris Hart resigned from Standard Bank in a similar incident.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.