The Tibb Treatment Centre, a private clinic known for charging cheaper prices is under threat of closing down after being robbed at gun-point on Tuesday. Situated in St Francis Centre in Langa, the clinic was robbed of about R28 000 in cash. Nosipho Nogayi, a supervisor said four males, who are between the ages of 19 and 21, carried out the robbery. Nogayi said the thieves had accosted a colleague from their Surrey Estate branch, who was putting the weeks’ takings into the boot of the car she was driving. “They pointed the gun at her shoulder and demanded she hand the cash over to them, before snatching the money bag and running off. They did not fire any shot.” Nogayi did not want to divulge the identity of the victim, save to say she is a female colleague. The other two accomplices, who were standing just metres away during the robbery, also followed the culprits to their two getaway cars, which were parked outside the gates and sped-off. The victim’s car keys were also in the bag. Nogayi said they were now living in fear and that Professor Bhika, who owns the centres, has vowed to close down the centre should it get robbed again. “We are all scared now. I cannot even sleep at night. We did not expect such a thing. They(suspects) were clean boys and they did not look suspicious. We do not trust boys who come here anymore, because we do not know if they are genuine patients or skollies.” Professor Bhika has appealed to the community to come up with information regarding the robbery. The community will suffer should it close down, because it is very cheap compared to other centres,” Nogayi said. The centre, which has been operating since 2006, has suffered its robbery. Vulindlela Tsotsi, a security guard at the centre, said the suspects distracted his attention by asking directions to the toilet. “One of them asked me to go and show him the toilet and he said he was shy to ask females where the toilet was. When he came back the other one also came with the same story. They said they were in the accompany of a patient who was inside. I was surprised to see them pointing a gun at her and demanding money. The securities at the gate asked them why they were running and they said they were rushing for the bus. Elders and children will suffer the most should the clinic close down,” Tsotsi said. Inspector Odwa Makupula, Langa police communication officer, said they are investigating a case of business robbery and that no arrests have been made yet. 