Teboho.SetenaREFILOE NTHEJANE, the only Free State representative in the Miss Teen Commonwealth South Africa competition. Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories YOUNG contestant Refiloe Nthejane, a finalist in the 2016 Miss Teen Commonwealth South Africa competition, seeks funding to ensure the success of her task of reaching for the title by reaching out to her community. The only contestant representing the Free State in the pageant, she is one of the top 29 finalists, exclusive from South Africa. All the finalists have each been given a task to complete successfully. Successful completion of the given assignment will be used as one of the determining points in the crowning of Miss Teen Commonwealth South Africa 2016 on 2 July at the Atterbury Theatre in Pretoria. Nthejane, a gr. 12 learner of a Bloemfontein school, must raise a minimum sponsorship of R3 000. These funds will be utilised to cover administration, production costs and workshops, as well as to assist Miss Teen Commonwealth South Africa 2016 during her reign. Nthejane is appealing for assistance in funding from private and public entities to ensure the success of her quest for the prestigious crown. She is short of R1 000 to achieve the required sponsorship. The entity that will sponsor Nthejane with a minimum sponsorship of R1 000, will qualify as a Silver Sponsor and the contestant becomes the brand ambassador of the sponsoring company. Other benefits are as follows: The entity s logo will be advertised on all social media platforms X Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn of the South Africa Commonwealth pageants; the logo and contact details will feature in the printed programme at the grand finale on 2 July and the company s logo will be on display before the crowning event as part of the audio-visual display in the theatre.In line with her task, Nthejane has also raised funds for Bloem Shelter, which houses abused children and women in Bloemfontein. Those willing to sponsor Nthejane can call Brian Malotle, her manager, on 081-489-2880.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.