Ahmed Areff, News24 Penuel Mnguni on top of congregants with a car. (End Times Disciples Ministries, Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria - Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel
Mnguni is back in the public eye again, this time after images of him
driving over his congregants were posted on social media. The Facebook page for his End Times Disciples Ministries
showed images of Mnguni behind the wheel of a car, driving over two people
outside the Kameelrivier B stadium hall on June 3. The text accompanying the pictures said they showed a
"demonstration of power". "The man of God Prophet Penuel demonstrated the power
of God by running over two... congregants: He commanded both of the members to
sleep followed by moving the car over them," the post said. "The man of God then commanded them to wake up while
the car was on top of their bodies. He then asked them if they felt any pain
and their response was 'we do not feel anything'. "Prophet Penuel proceeded by reversing the car back and
again he commanded them to wake up. By amazement they stood up and began to
dance and praise God together with the rest of the congregants." Mnguni has previously been criticised for having his
flock nibble on a snake, and bite off part of a rat’s tail. Other posts on the Facebook page included one from June 4,
where he "commanded a young lady from the congregation to become a white
horse, and he began to ride the horse. Moments after he commanded the lady to
come back to her normal state of human being". A photo accompanying that post shows him sitting on the
woman while she is on her hands and knees.   Penuel Mnguni about to drive over congregants. (End Times Disciples Ministries, Facebook)  'Spirit of the snake' According to a June 5 post, Mnguni commanded his congregants
to "fall asleep" before jumping on them. “Moments after, the Man of God climbed on top of a big
speaker then he jumped on top of them. He then commanded them to wake up, he
asked them if they felt any pain. To their amazement they had witnessed that
they felt no pain." On August 9 last year, the Economic Freedom Fighters
allegedly set the pastor's tent in Soshanguve alight. The party said they led a
march to the tent, but that local residents had torched it. About two weeks later, he claimed to have made congregants
speak Nigerian and Chinese. Mnguni "commanded the sheep to come to the front"
and instructed the "spirit of the snake to enter them", according to
the Facebook page. "They started moving like snakes and behaving like
snakes. He then sent them to go to Nigeria and they started to speak like
Nigerians. He further demonstrated by sending them into the water and commanded
them to swim. They all started swimming and behaving like the different
creatures living under the sea," according to the page. In October last year, the CRL Rights Commission held
hearings on dubious religious practices, with the aim of making recommendations
to Parliament on changing the law. The commission’s investigation was initiated following a
flurry of complaints, including one from the SA Council of Churches, against
pastors Lesego Daniel of Rabboni Ministries, and Mnguni. The commission failed
to get Mnguni to appear. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  