Jeanette Chabalala, News24(Screengrab, Chipsta, YouTube) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein &ndash; Several UFS students allegedly involved in the Varsity Cup rugby match fight at Shimla Park, have appeared before a disciplinary hearing, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. The 15 University of the Free State students were at a hotel in Westdene, Bloemfontein, on Monday to answer to charges of public violence and vandalism.&nbsp;&ldquo;The hearing is sub judice and I cannot comment about it at this stage,&rdquo; university spokesperson Lacea Loader said. Nico Naude, representing four of the students, said the hearing was postponed to October 24. It was not yet clear if the postponement was for all the students. Attempts to get comment from the remaining students&rsquo; legal representatives were unsuccessful. On February 22, a group of protesters led by SRC president Lindokuhle Ntuli invaded the field and interrupted a Varsity Cup match between the UFS Shimlas and the Madibaz. Spectators ran onto the pitch to confront them and several brawls broke out.The students facing the hearing were both spectators and protesters. Naude was representing four of the spectators.&nbsp; The hearing was also related to vandalism of property at the UFS.On February 23, protesters apparently affiliated to the EFF pulled down and vandalised a statue of Charles Robberts Swart on campus. They burnt tyres at the foot of the statue, and used hammers and rocks to bring it down. Swart was the last governor general of the Union of South Africa until 1961 and was president of the Republic of South Africa from 1961 to 1967. The students wanted those facing deregistration to be allowed to complete their academic year, transformation and "decolonisation" to be fast-tracked, campus buildings renamed after black struggle heroes, and poor students to be given preference when it came to placement, without ignoring the academic criteria already in place. Last month, Vice Chancellor Jonathan Jansen announced he would step down on August 31. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.