Angolan businesswoman Isabel dos Santos. (Fernando Veludo, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Now that Isabel dos Santos, Africa's
wealthiest woman, has been named head of Angola's oil company she could soon be
headed for more power – but this time in politics, experts say. Her father, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos,
appointed her as boss last week of state-owned oil firm Sonangol in a move that
some analysts see as the first sign of succession plans for Angola's long-time
ruler. Nicknamed the "Princess", 43-year-old
Isabel, has been ranked by Forbes magazine as the richest woman on the
continent with a fortune of around $3bn. Her appointment at Sonangol has political
ramifications in Africa's second largest oil-producing country. The ruling MPLA party holds a crucial congress in
August to elect its leadership and her authoritarian father appears to be
winding down his own political career after announcing would not seek
re-election in 2017. Her new powerful role at Sonangol may position her
for political office in a country ruled by her father for 37 years. "The president wants to establish a dynasty
and leave the power to his family," prominent Angolan writer and human
rights activist Rafael Marques de Morais told AFP. "One of the ideas is that Isabel steps up as
vice president... and then along the way she takes over," Marques told
AFP. Paula Roque, University of Oxford researcher on
Angola, says the appointment of Isabel dos Santos "is a clear indication
that the president wants to put in place a plan... to hand over power and
concentrate power in the hands of his family." "For the first time, the president has made a
very overt move to show what he is planning. This is the first open step in the
succession plan," Roque told AFP. Three years ago President dos Santos appointed his
son Jose Filomeno dos Santos to chair the country's $5bn Sovereign Wealth Fund. He has also been tipped as a potential successor to
his father. Establish a dynasty Most of Isabel's wealth is in stocks and shares in
Portugal and Angola. According to Marques, Isabel dos Santos owns
billions of dollars worth of shares through GALP Energia, an offshore oil and
gas giant, which belongs to Sonangol. It is GALP "she used to become the richest
woman in Africa," said Marques, adding she never paid for the shares. Born in Baku, Azerbaijan in 1973 where her father
was studying, she grew up in London, where she studied mechanical and
electrical engineering at King's College. She moved to Angola in 1992 when her father secured
a brief civil war truce with rebel leader Jonas Savimbi. Her first business venture was in 1995 when she
opened a restaurant, Miami Beach, as a 24-year-old in Angola's capital Luanda. Four years later she won a bid to set up Angola's
private mobile operator Unitel. From there she went on an investment spree –
including the creation of BIC Angola bank. She now controls 19% of Portugal's fourth-biggest
bank BPI and has bought shares in several Portuguese companies in recent years,
including a cable television firm. She has also spread her banking empire into
neighbouring Namibia. Last year she bought 65% of Portugal's energy and
electrical engineering group Efacec, prompting calls by five European Union
parliamentarians to investigate the source of her funding. Critics say she amassed her vast fortune thanks to
the state and backing of her father. But in an interview with the Wall Street Journal
early this year, she denied being bankrolled by the government. "I'm not financed by any state money or any
public funds. I don't do that," she said. "I'm tremendously independent, I always had
this wish to stand alone and not be in my parents' shadow." The mother of three is married to art collector and
businessman Sindika Dokolo who is from the Democratic Republic of Congo. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  