Kaveel Singh, News24Penny Sparrow speaks to News24. (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The Oliver and Adelaide Tambo Foundation will deliberate on whether or not it will accept the R150 000 fine the Equality Court imposed on Penny Sparrow, its chief executive Mavuso Msimang said on Wednesday.Msimang said he personally felt the foundation should not accept the donation."I just would not take these funds myself. But the matter is for the board to decide. I honestly don't know what they will do."Last week Sparrow was ordered in the Umzinto Equality Court by Magistrate Irfaan Khalil to pay R150 000 to the Oliver and Adelaide Tambo Foundation for her racist comments. He interdicted her from any further hate speech.Sparrow raised ire with a controversial Facebook post in which she likened black beach-goers to monkeys.The outrage Sparrow stirred up with the post prompted the ANC to approach the court in January.The ruling party said it wanted the court to find that her utterances were racist and constituted hate speech.'Dirty money'Msimang said Sparrow was an "unrepentant racist" and that some people may view taking the funds negatively."Some will say these funds could go to good causes, but others may view it as dirty money."Msimang said that media reports outlined how Sparrow did not believe she was wrong. "It is clear from reports that she doesn't believe that she is guilty of hate speech&hellip; [or that] calling people monkeys is hate speech. She thinks it doesn't make her a racist."According to Msimang, the most important aspect of the Sparrow debacle was the ruling of the Equality Court."This has been the most triumphant aspect of all this. I think the punishment is very fitting. This is the kind of person we do not need in society."KwaZulu-Natal National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Natasha Kara said the NPA would deliberate on bringing criminal charges against Sparrow.Sparrow could not be reached for comment.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.