Amanda Khoza, News24 Mike Mabuyakhulu (City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – Former KwaZulu-Natal Economic Development MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu has confirmed that he has resigned as a member of Parliament. In an interview with News24 on Monday night, Mabuyakhulu said it was time to hand over the baton to someone who will bring fresh ideas. His resignation comes hours after the ANC in the province announced that it had decided to axe four of its MECs and reshuffle its Cabinet. Mabuyakhulu was one of those who was axed. "Yes, I have resigned. I have been serving [in Parliament] since 1994 and... I have been serving as MEC for 17 years. The time has come now to leave because I have had a rare opportunity to serve and I am handing over the baton, the movement has a lot of talent." Mabuyakhulu said he would use the time he now had to reflect. "I am not sure what I am going to do yet. I am going to give myself time to reflect." 'I could have done better' When asked what reasons the ANC could have had to recall him, he said he respected the party's decision. "I respect the ANC's views, I don’t want to be drawn to the ANC's views. I have chosen to be objective. I think that I am grateful to have served in the public office for so long. I think we need to make sure that we bring in leaders with fresh ideas, despite of how well or how poorly the previous leader has performed." Mabuyakhulu, who sounded upbeat, said it was time to let those with better ideas improve on the work already done. "Maybe it is time for new ideas and for someone to bring new ideas. Not because I have failed, yes, I accept I could have done better in some areas but this is how it is." Mabuyakhulu, along with Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Ntombikayise Sabhidla-Saphetha, education's Peggy Nkonyeni and agriculture and rural development's Cyril Xaba were recalled. They will be replaced by Bongi Sithole-Moloi (sport, arts and culture), Sihle Zikalala (economic development) and Mthandeni Dlungwana (education). Xaba will be replaced by Themba Mthembu. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  