Mpho Raborife, News24Richard Mdluli (City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli on Tuesday denied claims that he had kept two dockets, implicating him in an attempted murder and a kidnapping case, locked in a safe in his office.Mdluli's lawyer, Ike Motloung, told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge that his client categorically denied the claims made by former Lieutenant Colonel Christo de Goede.De Goede earlier testified that he found the dockets shortly after taking over as acting branch commander of the Vosloorus police station in 1999, after Mdluli was transferred to George.De Goede was testifying in the trial of Mdluli and his co-accused, Mthembeni Mthunzi, on charges of intimidation, kidnapping and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Their victim was allegedly Mdluli&rsquo;s love rival, Oupa Ramogibe. They have both pleaded not guilty.The charges against the two stem from the extreme lengths Mdluli allegedly went to, between 1997 and 1999, to find out where Tshidi Buthelezi and Ramogibe were hiding.Mdluli had a long-term relationship with Buthelezi from his school days and claimed she was his wife.Directly implicatedHowever, during her relationship with Mdluli, Buthelezi met Ramogibe and they began a relationship. They married on July 22, 1998.Earlier on Tuesday, De Goede told the court that, after finding the dockets and reading them, he realised a man had been taken from Orange Farm to Dawn Park, where he was assaulted and shot at. The man appeared to have had an affair with Mdluli's wife.He found Mdluli was directly implicated in both the attempted murder and kidnapping charges.On Tuesday, Motloung told De Goede that no case was ever opened and no reports made regarding Ramogibe's kidnapping or attempted murder.Motloung said the dockets De Goede found did not contain Ramogibe's name.He accused De Goede of not telling the truth about the dockets because no cases were ever opened.Statement submitted 12 years laterDe Goede denied lying and said the statements did exist. He however agreed that no case was opened because the docket had not been registered or given a case number."You told me that I lied. I'm still waiting for that lie," De Goede told Motloung.The court heard that De Goede submitted his first written statement on the matter in 2011, 12 years after he found the dockets.A Colonel Martinus Botha, from the police's provincial office, had asked him whether he was willing to submit a statement with the then-Gauteng Hawks boss Shadrack Sibiya.On the day of his appointment with Sibiya, on March 31, 2011, De Goede said Sibiya did not arrive. He later learned that Sibiya had been involved in Mdluli's arrest.An officer Roelofse took a statement from De Goede in his home on April 5 that year.ProcedureAfter printing two copies of his statement to sign, Roelofse allegedly showed De Goede two other statements from two women about the same incident.Motloung asked whether this was procedure. De Goede said it was not."I found it funny, yes. It is not normal to be shown other people's statements."Motloung said the police had used De Goede. They had wanted to arrest Mdluli and make a "big thing" of it, even without concrete charges."This shows how desperate the police were, and they used you. They made you [submit] a false affidavit about facts that never existed under the sun," Motloung said.De Goede said he could not dispute Motloung's statement."I can only testify to what I saw, that's all," he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.