News24 Correspondent 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Port Elizabeth – The Democratic Alliance (DA) would table a corruption report on Nelson Mandela Bay safety and security head, Linda Mti, the party said on Sunday.  “There is such clear evidence of corruption and fraud by Mr Mti,” the DA claimed in a statement. “DA mayoral candidate for the NMB municipality, Athol Trollip… [and MP] Glynnis Breytenbach, will table a crucial document on corruption by NMB's head of safety, Linda Mti… Action steps will be announced." The opposition party criticised the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for having allegedly “sat on their hands for nine years” about the matter. This week, Mmamnkeli Ngam, spokesperson for the MEC for co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), said missing documents expected to regularise the appointment of Mti into his municipal position had been found. Track record Earlier in the week, the DA in the Eastern Cape demanded Mti be suspended after it emerged that Cogta MEC, Fikile Xasa, had not been informed of Mti's appointment, as he was supposed to in terms of the Municipal Systems Act. The Nelson Mandela Bay Metro said it had sent to the documents relating to Mti's appointment to Xasa's office. But Xasa told Trollip he had not been informed of Mti's appointment and had not seen documentation on it so could not comment on the DA's concerns over Mti's track record. Trollip had previously alleged that current mayor, Danny Jordaan, snuck Mti into the position. He cited Mti's drunk driving convictions – in 1992 and 2009 – and said the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) was also probing a R1bn tender awarded to Bosasa facilities management while Mti was still a prisons commissioner. Mti allegedly benefited personally from the tender through receipt of air tickets and paid hotel stays. Mti, a former African National Congress (ANC) chairperson in the Eastern Cape, and Jordaan were on the 2010 World Cup local organising committee together. The metro's spokesperson, Kupido Baron, said earlier this week the metro considered the convictions as being in the past. It did not mention the allegations the NPA is probing when sending the appointment documentation to Xasa, saying they are untested and should not be used to disqualify a competent individual. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  