System Photo: supplied Varsity College alumni at a recent employment workshop. . Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  VARSITY College hosted its annual KwaZulu-Natal Graduate Employment Workshop (Gew) recently at Varsity College Westville campus. The KZN Gew is a free one-day workshop open to all Varsity College alumni from its various campuses. In the workshop, graduates have the opportunity to obtain advice and guidelines from industry specialists regarding motivation, CV design, interview techniques, dressing for success, building your personal brand, goal setting and developing a job search plan. They also have the opportunity to develop contacts and network with fellow alumni as well as industry experts. “We have had yet another successful KwaZulu-Natal Gew this year.  “Graduates felt inspired and motivated to take on the job-search challenge. We wish our graduates all the best,” said Celeste Grant, career centre co-ordinator for Varsity College Westville. One of the industry specialists was Paula Eaten, who has over 10 years’ experience in the human resources field with particular focus on the learning and development side. Natasha Hurst, a recruitment consultant, has been in recruitment for two years. Prior to that she gained over 10 years’ selling experience with clothing brands like Nike, Levi, Converse­ and Triumph. Lucy Wheeler, a strategy and people­ Fixa, uses her experience in corporate retail with her Masters in neuro linguistics programming, coaches business owners, management teams and individuals.  Her vision is to inspire awesomeness with a fresh approach, while delivering exceptional results. During a mock interview session, graduates had to practice their interview skills in a real-life scenario and were provided with feedback from recruitment specialists in industry.  - Supplied.       24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  