Jeanette Chabalala and Thulani Gqirana, News24(Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Footage from an upmarket gift and accessories shop in Constantia appears to show a woman shoplifting. After allegedly stealing a purse, she appears to steal a scented candle. WATCHBloemfontein &ndash; The Democratic Alliance in the Free State has referred African National Congress MPL Sarah Malitaba Moleleki to the ethics committee in the legislature.This after the 56-year-old was&nbsp;caught stealing earrings and nail polish while on a visit to Cape Town in May."The DA strongly condemns this alleged conduct. The legislature must maintain its integrity by taking the necessary action against her," said provincial leader Patricia Kopane in a statement.&nbsp;"It is highly revealing that the ANC remains silent on this matter. This again shows how the party has become tolerant of crime committed by leaders within its ranks," she said on Wednesday.ANC spokesperson Thabo Meeko said they would issue a statement on the matter soon. &nbsp;The MPL was arrested on Saturday, May 28, after she was seen pocketing nail polish and earrings from the Adderley Street Woolworths store in Cape Town, police said on Monday.Hundreds of cases divertedShe was "sentenced" to a theft intervention programme, which the National Prosecuting Authority said was nothing new. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said hundreds of cases were diverted every year.Ntabazalila said on Tuesday the 56-year-old had stolen three earrings valued at R180 and one R79.95 nail polish.The total was R259.95.The police had previously stated the value of the items incorrectly and had referred to her as Moleleti instead of Moleleki.&nbsp;"After the arrest, the accused was warned by SAPS to appear in the Community Court by means of a SAPS 496 (written warning to appear in court). At the Community Court the accused appeared in person and was assessed by a social worker from Khulisa Social Solutions," he said.Development of empathyShe was found to be suitable for a diversion programme.She took part in an "Individual Breakthrough" programme, the NPA said."The matter was subsequently withdrawn by the prosecutor as a diversion," said Ntabazalila.&nbsp;The Khulisa programme is provided to offenders who take responsibility for the crime committed, and&nbsp;focuses on development of empathy, citizenship and restorative justice, according to their website.A strong family component is included. Criminal charges are withdrawn on successful completion of the programme.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.