MDC 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - The opposition Movement for Democratic Change, led by Morgan Tsvangirai, has welcomed the recently launched anti-graft campaign by the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC).  The campaign would see several individuals and corporations being investigated.  According to the state-owned Sunday Mail newspaper, the ZACC established the probe just less than two weeks ago after the anti-graft agency and police secured crucial evidence following a raid on a number of government offices. The report further revealed that high profile people were expected to be arrested this week.  Among those who were issued with warrants were top government officials and heads of state-owned companies.  In a press statement sent to News24, MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu said that his party welcomed the campaign, adding that they hoped for a thorough investigation.   Gutu said the scourge of corruption had wreaked havoc in Zimbabwe, resulting in the country losing much needed revenue.  "Corruption is a cancer that has wreaked havoc in the entire socio-economic fabric of our society. As a direct result of corruption in both the public and private sector, billions of dollars’ worth of taxpayers’ and other public funds have been siphoned out of the country over the past 36 years," Gutu said. He said that no one should be spared during the investigations. "… No corrupt politician, civil servant, and businessperson and/or business entity should escape the clampdown on corruption if at all Zimbabwe is going to meaningfully exorcise the ghost of graft from within our society," said Gutu. The probe came just less than a week after the MDC called on the government to instigate an investigation into an over $400 million tender that was awarded to a convicted businessman linked to President Robert Mugabe’s wife Grace. According to The Standard, the Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC) queried how controversial businessman Wicknell Chivayo was awarded deals worth $441 million, given his 2004 conviction for fraud.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  