Amanda Khoza, News24KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Peggy Nkonyeni looks at a threat saying RESIGN spray painted on a wall at Villa Maria Primary School near Table Mountain. The MEC visited the school after the principal, Nokuthula Magwanyana, was murdered on Wednesday. (Ian Carbutt, The Witness) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Former KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Peggy Nkonyeni confirmed on Tuesday that she had resigned as a member of the provincial legislature.Nkonyeni told News24 that, despite the party&rsquo;s desperate plea for her to rethink her decision on Sunday, she had made up her mind. "I submitted my resignation this morning to the office of the Speaker and I wish to express my gratitude to the ANC for deploying me for three executive terms in that level. I understand that the ANC has a task of deploying cadres." She joins former Economic Development MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu who resigned from the legislature on Monday, following a cabinet reshuffle in the province. Nkonyeni was replaced by Mthandeni Dlungwana, who, along with Bongi Sithole-Moloi (sport, arts and culture), Sihle Zikalala (economic development), and Mxolisi Kaunda (Transport), were sworn in on Tuesday. Secretary of the SACP in the province,&nbsp;Themba Mthembu, was not part of the ceremony as he was still consulting with his party over the deployment. In a joint media briefing with the ANC later in the day, the SACP announced that Mthembu would be taking up the position and that he would be sworn into office soon. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu on Monday reshuffled his cabinet, and appointed Kaunda to fill a vacant post in the transport portfolio, a position which Mchunu had previously held. Nkonyeni, along with Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Ntombikayise Sabhidla-Saphetha, Mabuyakhulu and Agriculture and Rural Development's Cyril Xaba were all axed. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.