Naledi Shange, News24 Correspondent Bob Hewitt. (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – The State believes the Constitutional Court
will not change the fate of convicted rapist Bob Hewitt, the High Court in
Johannesburg heard on Monday. "The State's position is that it would be fruitless to
approach the Constitutional Court as there are no constitutional grounds (for
the appeal)," said Hewitt's lawyer, Stephanie Green. She was addressing Judge Brian Spilg in the absence of the
prosecutor. Hewitt had on Monday approached the court, seeking an
extension of his bail as he prepares to appeal his sentence in the
Constitutional Court. Spilg requested clarity on the position of the State with
regards to the extension, and requested that the prosecutor in the case avail
herself or give directions to another State representative. The case was adjourned until the prosecutor came to court. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein
previously said Hewitt had abused his position of authority when he raped two
young women and sexually assaulted another. It dismissed his appeal to have his six-year jail sentence
overturned, and said his fame did not earn him special treatment. In March last year, High Court Judge Bert Bam found the
76-year-old guilty of raping two women. Bam sentenced Hewitt to eight years
each for the rapes in May. Hewitt had coached the women in the 1980s, when they
were teenagers. Two years of each sentence were suspended for two years,
provided he paid an amount on each count towards a department of justice
programme to combat the abuse of women and children. In the 1990s, he coached another teenage girl - who may not
be named. He was sentenced to two years for indecently assaulting her. The SCA said it was regrettable that it had taken so long to
bring him to justice. It said Hewitt’s crimes had had a "lasting and
devastating" effect on the victims and their families. Both women who were raped by Hewitt are divorcees and have
submitted that they struggled to maintain intimate relationships with men
throughout their adult lives as a direct result of the rapes. The disgraced former tennis champ walked through the
hallways of the court, dressed in a white trench coat, with his wife Delaille
beside him. Going through the metal detectors in the court, the tall
Hewitt towered above the court security. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  