Precious.Gumede PHOTOS: supplied Louis Mkhanyiseli Shusha of Murchison went missing on 3 December, 2015  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     PORT Shepstone SAPS have received a number of missing people reports over the past couple of months, including two who were reported missing last year. Families of the missing people have asked police to issue information to the public to help in their endeavour to find them. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Zandra Wiid said they have had many young and old people reported missing, however, only five people have not been found.  “In a lot of the cases the missing person visits friends or goes partying without informing relatives and then returns or phones home after a day or two,” she said  Wiid said its very rare that people are not found. Louis Mkhanyiseli Shusha (28) left his residence in Newtown Murchison to come to Port Shepstone CBD on 3 December, 2015.  Shusha was last seen near Port Shepstone KFC, wearing black jeans and a long-sleeved, striped jersey.  Shusha can be identified by a heart tattoo on his left hand, and his top teeth overlap. Shusha has mental problems. Elizabeth Ndlovu (78) of Msikaba, Betania was reported missing in May 2015 and is reported to have a mental illness. Ndlovu’s family said she was allegedly seen entering an unknown red Toyota Venture and never returned home.”  Joshua Cele (56) of Nyenyezi area in Boboyi, was last seen on 26 May in the morning. However, none of his relatives knew where he went and could not confirm what he was wearing when he left. Jacqueline Nqobile Ndwalane (38), left her home in Kwa Ngwabe area­ in Boboyi on 10 May allegedly saying she was going to hire a bakkie to drive to Pietermaritzburg. Ndwalane’s family said she never returned home and had insufficient funds to hire the vehicle. She was wearing a black skirt and white shirt.  Mnyaise Hlanganani Dlamini (57), left his RDP house in Louisiana on 3 June at 11am. He was last seen at Shoprite, Wooley Street, wearing red takkies, black trousers, black jacket and checked shirt.  Wiid said police do everything they can to circulate details of missing people. “Police engage all the necessary resources once a missing persons report is received and a lot of time is spent on searching for them. It is the duty of the police to inquire at mortuaries or hospitals when a person is reported missing.  “A missing person report is immediately circulated to surrounding stations and the media once a report has been opened,” she said.  Wiid said in the case of teenagers, it is not unusual for them to leave home without informing parents, either­ to be with their girlfriend and boyfriend. She said parents should be responsible for their family and care for those who have a history of mental illness.  “Families should ensure that there is a responsible person with a child or elderly person when they leave home or when they are alone at home.  “They should also tell their family not to trust unfamiliar people, even if they promise them a job or money,” she said.  If anyone has information about missing persons, contact Warrant Officer­ Rams Ramphul on 079 500 1251 or Warrant Officer Johan­ Maree on 079 500 0728.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  