Cheryl.MoigPHOTO: nicole john Acting Indian Consul General Puneet R. Kundal lays a wreath at the Gandhi memorial plaque at the Pietermaritzburg railway station. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A GANDHI memorial museum will soon be opening soon at the Pietermaritzburg train station in the room where Mahatma Gandhi spent the night after he was thrown off the train at the station 123 years ago. This was announced at the recent commemoration of Gandhi s of the day he was thrown off the train on 7 June 1893. The event took place last Tuesday, hosted by the Pietermaritzburg Gandhi Memorial Committee. Also in attendance was the acting Indian Consul General Puneet R. Kundal. The museum will be funded by the Indian government and will hopefully officially open on 9 July when the second annual Gandhi Memorial lecture will take place with the Prime Minister of India present. It is here that he [Gandhi] got the understanding that led him to become a pillar of peace. He believed justice could be served and he believed in hating the sin and not the sinner. He wasn t a person that would give up easily and this is what his life teaches us - to forge on and strive for what is right. His ideas, values and morals transcend cultures and his life is emulated in many parts of the world, whether known or unknown to people, said Kundal. He thanked the Pietermaritzburg Gandhi Memorial committee for their dedication in continuing the teaching of Gandhi s life and keeping his memory alive. Your commitment comes with great love and affection. His effect will live on forever, he said. David Gengan from the Pietermaritzburg Gandhi Memorial committee said the story of Gandhi needs to be told for many generations to come. It is great to see that decades after Gandhi s death countries continue to speak about him and celebrate his life and the values he stood for, he said. Msunduzi Municipality speaker, Babu Baijoo, reiterated the importance of story tellers to keep the memory of Gandhi as well as other freedom fighters alive. Gandhi inspired others, including great people in the world. The relationship between India and South Africa will continue to remain strong because of this. We, as the municipality, wish the Gandhi committee everything of the best and know that in all your endeavours, the city is behind you, said Baijoo. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.