Amanda Khoza, News24Willies Mchunu (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Changes to the KwaZulu-Natal Cabinet were an attempt to settle political scores, some opposition parties said on Monday."In spite of recent statements by newly-appointed Premier Willies Mchunu that there will be no changes in the KZN Cabinet, we knew that it will be pay-back time for those who&nbsp;supported Senzo Mchunu," the Inkatha Freedom Party&rsquo;s Blessed Gwala said. He was responding to Willies Mchunu&rsquo;s Cabinet reshuffle on Monday."It is an indication that those who were appointed by Senzo Mchunu are not favoured by the new ANC leadership in KZN, even though they have a lot of experience in government." Gwala warned the ANC that any structure built on hatred, camps, and distrust would not last. Senzo Mchunu was forced to resign as KwaZulu-Natal premier two weeks ago. Former Transport MEC Willies Mchunu replaced him. DA MPL Sizwe Mchunu said the ANC&rsquo;s factionalism and infighting was undermining job creation and service delivery. "The ANC is more concerned with positions than putting the people first," he said. He is not related to Senzo or Willies. The changes to the provincial cabinet amounted to reshuffling the deck chairs on a sinking ship, he said. The party was disappointed in the changes and it was clear that the ANC was settling political scores. The National Freedom Party&rsquo;s Sabelo Sigudu said the party did not agree with some of the new appointments. "How can you remove Economic Development MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu who was doing very well in his portfolio? We are happy that Education MEC Peggy Nkonyeni is gone, she did poorly," said Sigudu. The EFF&rsquo;s provincial leader, Vusi Khoza, said the reshuffle was not due to the performance of the MECs, but because of internal squabbles.&nbsp; Khoza questioned how the party could replace Mabuyakhulu with ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala, who had little experience in government. "How could you take someone who was incompetent like Peggy Nkonyeni and replace her with someone with zero experience?" The EFF called on South Africans to reject the ANC&rsquo;s "shenanigans" at the ballot box on August 3. The ANC announced earlier that it had axed four MECs - Ntombikayise Sibhidla-Saphetha for sport, arts and culture; Mike Mabuyakhulu for economic development; Peggy Nkonyeni for education; and Cyril Xaba for agriculture and rural development.&nbsp; They would be replaced by Bongi Sithole-Moloi, Sihle Zikalala, Mthandeni Dlungwane, and Themba Mthemba. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.