News24 Correspondent iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - A leading safari company in Zimbabwe is advising foreign tourists to bring cash with them to beat the country's worsening cash shortages. The Amalinda Collection, which runs luxury lodges in Hwange and the Matopos, said in a post to its website: "With the recent cash shortage in the country and the possible introduction of bond notes, our guests are advised to travel with cash in small denominations so as to avoid disappointment and unnecessary headaches." Banks in Zimbabwe are limiting cash withdrawals and there are moves to allow a maximum withdrawal "ceiling" of just $500 per week. For now, some banks are allowing withdrawals of between $100-$300 per day, but customers may have to queue for hours to get cash. This may also affect visitors who had been hoping to withdraw cash using the international Visa platform or something similar. Importation of currency Plastic cash is hardly used in Zimbabwe. The Amalinda Collection said it wanted to ensure that all visits were "memorable and stress-free". Travellers should, however, be aware that the maximum cash they can take out of Zimbabwe is $1 000 or R20 000, according to a statement by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority ZIMRA. Previously, those leaving the country were allowed to take $5 000 or its equivalent in other currencies. ZIMRA said in a statement on Thursday: "The importation of currency into Zimbabwe by travellers is not restricted. This implies that any person can bring in any amount of currency into Zimbabwe." The authority said visitors should declare the money in their possession on Baggage Declaration Forms when they enter the country. That may help avoid problems - and possible forfeiture of cash - when they leave Zimbabwe if they are carrying more than R20 000, ZIMRA said. "The processed declaration forms may be used to support re-export of any balance of currency at the end of the visit to Zimbabwe should it exceed the allowed export thresholds," the statement said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  