(Supplied, Saps) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Tourists from India fell victim to a group of robbers who pretended to be police officers in Johannesburg at the weekend, a report has said. The tourists were travelling on the M2 on a tour bus on Saturday when two men, dressed as police offices, stopped the bus and boarded, The Star reported on Monday. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo told The Star that the two suspects robbed the driver of R800, and made off with around $700 and four cellphones from the tourists, before speeding off in an unmarked white VW Polo.  The incident took place at around 11:30 on the Cleveland off-ramp. The bus was headed for Gold Reef City. A case of robbery was being investigated. US official shot on tour bus Last month, a US city councilman from Alabama was shot in the face in Johannesburg during another robbery of a tour bus, News24 reported. CJ Small was said to be in a stable condition after a group of armed men ambushed the bus in Edenvale on Saturday, May 21. A woman described witnessing the incident, Netwerk24 reported, saying she saw a blue BMW pull up to the bus, with four men jumping out.  The men opened the front doors of the minibus and pulled out the occupants, while one of them pressed the gun to the driver's head before pushing the occupants back into the minibus.  Coelho, who was travelling with a friend, drove onto the curb to flee the scene.  She immediately reported the incident to the police's emergency number, but was still waiting for police to take a statement at the time of publishing.  Full recovery A representative from Mobile, Alabama later said in a statement that Small was moved to a trauma centre in Johannesburg, and was expected to make a full recovery. On June 6, Small said in a Facebook post: "I am so thankful to God and the countless people who aided me and my family over the last few weeks.  "Words do not adequately express my gratitude for the love and support shown to us.  "I am so very thankful for everything and to be well on the road to recovery." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  