Naledi Shange, News24 Correspondent Bob Hewitt (Herman Verwey/Foto24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - High Court Judge Brian Spilg on Monday lashed
out at the police for placing convicted rapist Bob Hewitt under arrest as he
waited to have his bail extension application heard. Spilg was informed that Hewitt's attornies had informed the
State of their intention to apply for the extension last week, but upon their
arrival in court on Monday, the investigating officer placed Hewitt under
arrest. Hewitt's lawyer, Stephanie Green, said she had been busy
trying to get the matter before a judge earlier on Monday morning when she
received a call from Hewitt, saying the investigating officer was arresting
him. The officer had given Hewitt until 11:00 to sort out his
legal matters. Spilg said he was not interested in the arrest and would
hear Hewitt's application. He said he would not tolerate the police's interference
in the separation of powers. He demanded an explanation, adding that this
undermined the function of the court. As the matter played out, Hewitt was seated in the court
gallery next to his wife Delaille, as the dock was occupied by a group of other
men whose case was being heard by Spilg. The wife of the disgraced former tennis champ helped Hewitt,
who is hard of hearing, to follow the proceedings. "Can you hear him?" she asked him following
Spilg's criticisms. "I know he crapped on them," the 76-year-old
replied. Hewitt was seeking an extension of his bail as he prepares
to appeal his double rape and sexual assault sentence in the
Constitutional Court. State opposes application Hewitt had failed in his bid to get his sentence overturned
in the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein. The SCA said Hewitt had abused his position of authority
when he raped two young women and sexually assaulted another. It dismissed his appeal to have his six-year jail sentence
overturned, and said his fame did not earn him special treatment. In March last year, High Court Judge Bert Bam found the
76-year-old guilty of raping two women. Bam sentenced Hewitt to eight years
each for the rapes in May. Hewitt had coached the women in the 1980s, when they
were teenagers. Two years of each sentence were suspended for two years,
provided he paid an amount on each count towards a department of justice
programme to combat the abuse of women and children. In the 1990s, he coached another teenage girl - who may not
be named. He was sentenced to two years for indecently assaulting her. The SCA said it was regrettable that it had taken so long to
bring him to justice. It said Hewitt’s crimes had had a "lasting and
devastating" effect on the victims and their families. Both women who were raped by Hewitt are divorcees and have
submitted that they struggled to maintain intimate relationships with men
throughout their adult lives as a direct result of the rapes. Meanwhile, prosecutor Carina Coetzee told the court that
they were opposing Hewitt's application. She arrived in court after proceedings had started and
requested time to view Hewitt's application. The matter continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  