Mpho Raborife, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Richard Mdluli's lawyer on Wednesday accused a retired police officer who found two dockets implicating the former police crime intelligence head in crimes, of lying. On Wednesday morning, Mdluli's lawyer Ike Motloung told retired Lieutenant-Colonel Christo de Goede that he would lie even when confronted with evidence contradicting his previous statements. He was cross-examining De Goede in the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge. De Goede was the first witness to testify in the trial of Mdluli and his co-accused Mthembeni Mthunzi. They face charges of intimidation, kidnapping, and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm.&nbsp; The charges are connected to the murder of Mdluli&rsquo;s love rival, Oupa Ramogibe, in 1999. Both men have pleaded not guilty. Motloung submitted a document in court with a timeline of Mdluli's appointments, transfers, and promotions within the SAPS. According to the document, in August 2000, Mdluli was transferred from Vosloorus to Oudtshoorn, to serve as a commissioner.On Tuesday, De Goede told the court he was transferred to the Vosloorus police station in the second half of 1999, after Mdluli was transferred to George, in the Southern Cape.A week after taking up the position as the acting branch commander in Vosloorus, De Goede said he found two dockets locked in a safe inside Mdluli's office. After taking the dockets to a director at the SAPS regional headquarters in Germiston that day, he heard nothing until the day he was asked to submit a statement to the Hawks, in 2008 or 2009. According to Motloung&rsquo;s document, Mdluli still served as the acting station commander between August 1999 and March 2000.Not reliableDe Goede stuck to his guns when presented with the conflicting dates. "That is the dates that I remember. That is the dates that is in my head," he told Motloung. "I put it to you Mr De Goede that it is not true. Even in the face of glaring evidence, that is a lie," Motloung responded. De Goede said the document itself was not reliable because he had picked up an error in it. It stated that Mdluli had been promoted to the same rank in two different years. Motloung conceded the error and maintained that De Goede was determined not to tell the court the truth. Based on the contents of the dockets, De Goede said he deduced that Mdluli was a suspect in two cases. He said a man had been abducted in Orange Farm and taken to Dawn Park where he was assaulted and shot at. The man appeared to have had an affair with Mdluli's wife, De Goede told the court. The charges against Mdluli and Mthunzi stem from the extreme lengths Mdluli allegedly went to between 1997 and 1999 to find out where Tshidi Buthelezi and Ramogibe, her husband, were hiding. Mdluli had a long-term relationship with Buthelezi from his school days and claimed she was his wife. However, during her relationship with Mdluli, Buthelezi met Ramogibe and they began a relationship. They married on July 22, 1998. The cross-examination continues. Ramogibe was gunned down in February 1999 while pointing out the scene of a previous attempt on his life to police. An inquest was held in the Boksburg Magistrate&rsquo;s Court to determine if Mdluli should face criminal charges for Ramogibe&rsquo;s death. The inquest found in November 2012 that there was insufficient evidence to link Mdluli to the murder.&nbsp; The Ramogibe family accused Mdluli of killing Oupa after he married Buthelezi. Mdluli claimed there was a plot to implicate him and that the Ramogibes were working with the police. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.