Thulani Gqirana, News24 EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Picture: Felix Dlangamandla/Foto24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - If Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema were to fall asleep in Parliament for a mere five minutes, it would cost the country R52 in productivity. And a five-minute snooze by DA leader Mmusi Maimane is worth R62. Should an ordinary Member of Parliament however nod off for five minutes when they are supposed to be working, how much does that cost? The cost in lost productivity is estimated to be about R43 for ordinary MPs who earn just over R1m a year, according to AfricaCheck. If each of the 400 National Assembly MPs and 54 National Council of Provinces representatives were to indulge in one five-minute nap a year, the country would lose R19 350 in productivity. The report, compiled by AfricaCheck’s Laura Grant, and released on Wednesday, looked at how much MPs earned, their perks and the type of work they do. This year, the EFF in Parliament has been giving dozing MPs a rude awakening, labelling them "sleepists". In April, International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane was caught sleeping in Parliament during a noisy debate over President Jacob Zuma. EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi shouted across the room at her, telling her she was not paid to sleep. "I'm worried that this minister, that we pay so much, Minister Maite [Nkoana-Mashabane], she is sleeping in Parliament, and with that position she is going to fall... She is still sleeping," said Ndlozi. And that five-minute nap was worth R95 in productivity, according to AfricaCheck.  If National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete or NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise, who both earn just over R2.7m, were to nod off for five minutes, it would cost R112 each in productivity. AfricaCheck looked at how MPs earned their salaries, what they actually did, and which ones were the most hard working. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  