Jeanette Chabalala, News24 Bob Hewitt. (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – Former tennis Grand Slam champion and
convicted rapist Bob Hewitt abused his position of authority when he raped two
young women and sexually assaulted another, the Supreme Court of Appeal said on
Thursday. It dismissed his appeal to have his six-year jail sentence
overturned, and said his fame did not earn him special treatment. "[Hewitt], ironically a father of a young girl himself
at the material time, exploited the complainants’ innocence and youth and
forced them to submit to his wicked desires. He abused his position of
authority and responsibility towards them and also abused the trust that their
parents had placed in him when they put their young children in his care,"
the SCA said. The court said it was regrettable that it had
taken so long to bring him to justice. "In my view, the sentences fit the criminal and the
crime and fairly balance the competing interests." In March last year, Pretoria High Court Judge Bert Bam found
the 75-year-old guilty of raping Suellen Sheehan and Theresa "Twiggy"
Tolken. Bam sentenced Hewitt to eight years each for the rapes in May. Hewitt
had coached the women in the 1980s, when they were teenagers. Two years of each sentence were suspended for two years,
provided he paid an amount on each count towards a department of justice programme
to combat the abuse of women and children. In the 1990s, he coached another teenage girl - who may not
be named. He was sentenced to two years for indecently assaulting her. The sentences would run concurrently. Hewitt applied for leave to appeal Bam's conviction. Bam
dismissed this, but granted him leave to appeal his sentence. 'Lasting and devastating effect' He said Hewitt's age, his health, and the time that had
elapsed since the incidents made the decision to impose a correct sentence very
difficult. However, the SCA said it gave consideration to Hewitt’s
personal circumstances particularly his advanced age, ill health and the
extraordinary amount of time that had passed since the offences were committed. Although his poor health was a matter to be considered, the
medical treatment and care he required would be available in prison. The SCA said Hewitt’s crimes had had a "lasting and
devastating" effect on the victims and their families. Sheehan and Tolken, both divorcees, had struggled to maintain
intimate relationships with men throughout their adult lives as a direct result
of the rapes. "According to the second complainant [Tolken], her
parents and sister never recovered from the incident and it has affected her
children too as a result of the manner in which she is raising them. The first
complainant has suffered severe depression and anxiety and has led what she
termed ‘a self-destructive’ life. "All three complainants, who were described as
promising tennis players in the trial, abandoned their potential tennis careers
and told how they cannot bring themselves to even watch tennis to this day
because of its link to the offences," it said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  