George Germishuys, Netwerk24 Jurie Roux. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Jurie Roux, the current CEO of the South African Rugby Union, has denied allegations of financial mismanagement and has asked that the case against him be thrown out, Netwerk24 reported on Wednesday. Roux is being sued by the University of Stellenbosch, where he used to work, for damages of more than R35m. In his defence, Roux acknowledged he had a duty to the university to act with "honesty, loyalty and in good faith" in performing his duties and promoting its interests. Roux has denied any breach of contract at the time he allegedly committed the financial offences. This was contained in Roux's plea submitted to the Western Cape High Court and to the university’s attorneys. He had missed three separate deadlines to submit his plea, but he finally did so on Tuesday. The university claims that Roux and the institution's former head of student fees, Chris de Beer, unlawfully channelled huge amounts of money to the Maties Rugby Club, among others. At the time of the alleged offences, Roux was the university’s director of financial planning and asset management. In the plea, Roux admits: - That he signed a contract with the university in 1994; - That he acted as Director of Financial Planning and Asset Management from 2002 to 2007 and as Senior Director of financial planning from 2007 to 2010; - That his appointment and continued employment by the university was subject to the university’s disciplinary procedure; - That the University Board must manage the assets of the university; - That he had to manage the university’s assets on the basis of the university's statutory and regulatory framework. Roux denied that, between 2002 and 2010, he infiltrated the university’s electronic bookkeeping programs with a untraceable computer program and, without the board’s knowledge, adjusted the reserves by about R35m. Roux denied that he had spread this amount to several cost centres, including the Maties Rugby Club. Roux also rejected the university’s assumptions that he had reduced the university's "unrestricted reserves" without leaving a trace or record; made misrepresentations of the university's accounting records; or abused the university’s assets, which led to the university being impoverished, and other damages. He also denied that he had illegally paid an amount of more than R1m to the Western Province Rugby Institute. The university is convinced that the payments were unauthorised and contrary to its processes. Roux denied the allegations, as well as that he owed the university R37 116 402 as a result of this. He asked that the allegations be set aside with costs. An application for a court date will now be made.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.