Jenni Evans, News24 Mthetho Sandla memorial service (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Western Cape policeman Mthetho Sandla was a
disciplined officer who died with his boots on, the Delft police station
commander said at his memorial service on Tuesday. "I think that the station has lost a hero," said
Colonel Luyanda Damoyi. "I want to say to you, your pain is ours," Damoyi
told Sandla's grieving family at a service at the packed St Matthews Anglican
Church in Delft, outside Cape Town. "We are crying with you," said Damoyi. Sandla was killed when AK47-wielding robbers opened fire on
him and a colleague at a filling station in Delft in the early hours of June
13. His colleague survived, but the 35-year-old Sandla died on
the scene. Police found explosives on the scene and believe the police
officers had thwarted an ATM robbery. Provincial commissioner General Khombinkosi Jula was among
the senior officers who laid brightly coloured wreaths trimmed with a solemn
purple next to a memorial stone erected in Sandla's honour in a quiet corner of
the Delft police station. The mournful sound of the Last Post was played as
police officers saluted him. (Jenni Evans, News24) The procession moved through Delft to the St Matthew's
Anglican Church, where a guard of honour lined the street near the church. The pews were packed with colleagues, and family members
mournfully sang and swayed to songs in memory and celebration of his life. A projector showed a collection of personal photographs of
him in various poses, including one of him in uniform. Damoyi told mourners that he had received the news that
Sandla was shot at 03:20 in the morning. When he got to the scene, Sandla was still wearing his
bulletproof vest. Damoyi said he was not the type of police officer who had to
be nagged or disciplined. He completed numerous courses and never gave any problems. "His file was empty," he told the family. "He
did not disappoint you," said Damoyi. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  