Iavan Pijoos, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the 38 Malawians stranded in Benoni, on the East Rand, after their bus broke down, gave birth to premature twins at the side of a road this week, the Gauteng social development department said.Mercy Ndlovu said the bus was on its way to Malawi when it had a mechanical failure a month ago. Their trip back home was supposed to take two days. Instead the group had been sleeping in the broken bus for over a month.Ndlovu was seven months pregnant when she went into labour.&ldquo;On Tuesday morning, I was not feeling well, I suffered from these weird cramps. I told my sister the babies are coming, the babies are coming."Her sister, Febbie Harawa, asked a nearby shop owner to call an ambulance.&ldquo;There was no time to wait, she was in too much pain and I needed to do something,&rdquo; Harawa said.&ldquo;We laid her down next to the bus and I told her to relax, while I am going to deliver the one baby,&rdquo; she said.&lsquo;I&rsquo;m happy they are alive&rsquo;Harawa safely delivered the first boy. When the ambulance arrived, they delivered the second boy. Ndlovu was taken to Tambo Memorial Hospital. &ldquo;I am happy that my babies are alive, but I would have wanted to wait till I was nine months pregnant. That is the right time to deliver the babies,&rdquo; she said.The babies were expected to be in hospital for a month.Social development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said the matter was only recently brought to the attention of MEC Nandi Mayathula.The other passengers had been provided with temporary accommodation. The bus driver had disappeared, but the department had tracked down the owner, who said a new bus would be sent.Mayathula said she was touched by the story. &ldquo;It happened at the time as we are commemorating Child Protection Week in our country. We could not let these infants continue to live in this bus as they were going to be exposed to health hazards."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.