Jeanette Chabalala, News24FILE: Dolly. (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein &ndash; A Free State EFF councillor candidate for the August 3 elections was arrested after he was found in possession of skins and heads belonging to stolen livestock, police said. Jacobus Nchefu, who is also a pastor, and four others were arrested after police stopped their car and they were found to be in possession of four sheep skins and heads, police spokesperson Wendy Nkabi said.Nkabi said they were arrested last week during a routine patrol at Bohlokong in Petrusburg in the Free State.&nbsp;&ldquo;They [officers] stopped and searched the vehicle&hellip; upon searching they found four sheep skins in the boot of the suspect&rsquo;s vehicle. It is alleged that the four sheep were slaughtered and kept in a church at Bohlokong location,&rdquo; she said. &nbsp;Officers also found 34 sheep at an open field in Bohlokong, she said. &nbsp;The five have since appeared in court, where their case was postponed to June 17 for a formal bail application. MPL arrestedAccording to the party's provincial chairperson, Kgotso Morapela, they were still waiting for court proceedings in order to take a decision on Nchefu. &nbsp;&ldquo;We are not going to hesitate to take strong actions [against] any individual who is on the wrong side of the law,&rdquo; said Morapela. &nbsp; &nbsp;In a separate incident, a police spokesperson said on Monday that a member of the Free State legislature has been nabbed for stealing earrings and nail polish.&nbsp;The 56-year-old MPL was arrested at Woolworths in Adderley Street on Saturday, May 28, after she stashed earrings worth R79.95 and nail polish worth R180 into her bag.She has since appeared in court, was sentenced to a diversion programme and the case was withdrawn.Police said the MPL first took the earrings and hid them in her white pullover pocket, then took nail polish and removed the tag, before throwing it in her bag. She then took a packet of cashew nuts, and paid for them.She was stopped on her way out the door, and was subsequently arrested after the items were found on her. She identified herself as an MPL, the spokesperson said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.