Thulani Gqirana, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Limpopo – The African National Congress in Limpopo will continue with elections programme activities on Sunday in honour of Agriculture MEC Joy Matshoge. Provincial secretary Nocks Seabi said they were shocked and saddened by Matshoge’s passing. The MEC, who also chaired the ANCWL in Limpopo, died in a car accident on Saturday. Seabi said Matshoge was  a committed member of the ANC who played a critical role in the struggle for gender equality. “As an MEC for agriculture and rural development, she understood the impact of the feminisation of poverty and worked to eradicate it and develop our rural areas.” Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is due to hold a rally in her hometown, Modimolle, Limpopo on Sunday, and the programme will continue, the ANC said. “She passes away at a critical period for the ANC as we are working to maintain a resounding ANC victory in the forthcoming local government elections. "In her honour, memory and spirit, the PEC will continue with all the elections programme activities in Waterberg, including the rally with the deputy president at Ephraim Mogale Stadium, Modimolle,” the party said. Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha on Sunday sent his condolences to the family and friends of the MEC. 'It is a very sad time for me as leader, her family, and for Limpopo people in general,” the premier said in a statement. The ANCWL on Sunday said the members and supporters of ANCWL had lost one of its first line of defence, of the rights of the women of South Africa. “Cde Joy was fearless yet humble leader of our movement. At all times she upheld the principles of democratic centralism and work tirelessly to build a progressive united ANCWL,” the party said in a statement. The professional nurse was sworn in as a member of the legislature in 2008, and served in various portfolios including SCOPA, treasury and local government. She was also the convenor of the interim structure that led Limpopo ANC when the PEC was disbanded in 2013. Limpopo legislature chief whip Falaza Mdaka described the MEC as a 'dedicated servant of the people, who understood that public service is about serving the electorate first, and was vibrant in executing her duties'. The ANC party caucus also sent their condolences to the family. The party said Matshoge was instrumental during the ANC Limpopo’s rebuilding process between 2012-2014 and her death had created a void within the cabinet and the ANC. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  