A man wears a hat with old Zimbabwean dollar notes during demonstrations in Harare. (Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Police
 in Zimbabwe will be "out in full force" to stop an attempted shutdown 
of the country's main border with South Africa on Monday,
 Home Affairs Minister Ignatius Chombo has been quoted as saying. Chombo
 told the state-controlled Sunday Mail: "We would like to assure all 
Zimbabweans and foreigners travelling into the country that
 all our ports of entry will be open for business as per normal." "Our law enforcement agencies will be out in full force to maintain peace and order," he added. Using
 the hashtag #Beitbridgeshutdown, protesters have been urging a shutdown
 of Beitbridge border post on Monday, partly to show Zimbabweans'
 anger over an attempt to ban many South African imports. Informal 
traders - including former vice president Joice Mujuru, according to a 
post on her Facebook page - say they depend on these imports to make a 
living.  Prayers
 will be said in Musina on the South African side of the border, 
according to a communique seen by News24. The protest appears
 to have the support of Zimbabwe's International Cross Border Traders' 
Association and Tajamuka, a protest group that is agitating for change 
in the country.  President
 Robert Mugabe's government is reacting with anger to a growing chorus 
of protests against the corruption and mismanagement
 that characterises much of its 36 years in power.  An
 online movement known as #ThisFlag which was started by Harare pastor 
Evan Mawarire appears to have given many Zimbabweans the bravery
 to finally speak out. Mawarire is now in exile. A
 Sunday Mail report said the authorities are crafting new legislation to
 jail those it considers to be abusing social media. In a clear
 threat to Mawarire and other frustrated Zimbabweans living in the 
diaspora, the paper said the authorities may even try to extradite 
citizens living outside the country if they engage in "abuse" of social 
media.  The paper mentioned #ThisFlag and Tajamuka.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  