Earl Haupt @EarlHaupt Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Advanced Learning Academy (ALA) in Athlone is under scrutiny by the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) after confirming that the independent school has been ordered to cease operations.According to a WCED spokesperson, Paddy Atwell, the department registered the institution provisionally as an independent school in January 2013 in an effort to give owner Gasiena Moosa an opportunity to fully comply with registration requirements. The school did not have a certificate at the time as their premises did not meet municipal requirements. &ldquo;The school subsequently moved and told the department they would submit a municipal certificate after completing renovations. The school submitted a lease agreement and a rezoning certificate for the new premises, but not the required municipal report,&rdquo; says Atwell. &ldquo;The school asked for another extension. The department then learned that the school had moved again, among other complaints. The WCED told the school on 7 April that its registration would lapse from 1 May and that it should help learners to find alternative places,&rdquo; concludes Atwell. A former teacher at the school, Nicky van Driel, has also come forward and says she was offered a job at the school at the beginning of June, only to discover that the staff had not been paid for previous months. She has since left the institution. &ldquo;I am deeply concerned about the well-being of the learners. Their future hangs in the balance &ndash; all due to the greed&thinsp;(of one person). I can obtain another teaching post, but these learners still have to complete matric and their academic year has now been severely affected,&rdquo; she says. People&rsquo;s Post tried to contact Moosa on numerous occasions for comment. Moosa requested People&rsquo;s Post contact the school&rsquo;s legal team, but upon request of their contact details, no reply was given. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.