Nokuthula.Khanyile PHOTO: supplied AYFS provincial co-ordinator at Love Life, Jabu Mkhulise (right) with young people at the launch of the programme. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories IN an effort to decrease the rate of HIV infections, teenage pregnancy and drugs and substance abuse, Love Life, in conjunction with the KZN Department of Health, launched the Adolescents and Youth Friendly Services (AYFS) programme at Impilwenhle Clinic in Imbali Unit 14.This after they launched the programme at Sobantu Clinic at the beginning of July. AYFS provincial co-ordinator at Love Life Jabu Mkhulise said the roll-out of the programme is a move by Umgungundlovu District to fight social ills among the youth. AYFS is a service that exclusively focuses on people aged between 10 and 24 in an effort to decrease the rate of HIV, sexually transmitted diseases, teenage pregnancy and substance abuse. Through this programme we encourage family planning and condom use to those who are sexually active. Mkhulise said it was alarming that Umgungundlovu District is one of the leading districts in KwaZulu-Natal when it comes to HIV infections and teenage pregnancy. The 21st Aids Conference in Durban is evident that new HIV infections are prevalent among girls and young women. Numbers indicate that a 2000 girls get infected with HIV every week, this makes it the highest rate in the world, and this programme seeks to reduce that. The AYFS service package includes health education, counseling, male circumcision, TB screening and management, mental health and other non-clinical services.The Impilwenhle Clinic will also implement happy hour and fast-queue service for those who often ignore their illness because of waiting time leading to health complications.Sister Nombuso Dlamini, who will be heading the programme, promised exceptional service at the clinic.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.