Zimbabwe's opposition supporters set up a burning barricade as they clash with police during a protest in Harare for electoral reforms. (Zinyange Auntony, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories President Robert Mugabe is expected to come face-to-face with his French counterpart Francois Hollande in Mali to discuss the "diplomatic tiff" that emerged following anti-Mugabe protests held in some parts of Zimbabwe last year.Harare - Zimbabwean activists have vowed to go ahead with planned protests against President Robert Mugabe's government on Wednesday, News Day&nbsp;reports.The protesters said they were prepared to continue with the demonstrations until Mugabe, 92, stepped down.&nbsp; Protests have been held recently in Zimbabwe, as activists tried to force Mugabe to relinquish power.Mugabe has been in power since 1980, when the southern African nation attained its independence. The country's economy has continued to crumble under his leadership.&nbsp;The co-ordinators of the protests, #Tajamuka/Sesijikile (we are agitated) insisted that they would forge ahead with the protests despite a heavy police presence that resulted in many demonstrators being assaulted by police officers last Friday.As many as 67 people, including the elderly, were wounded in protests that took place in Harare.Hardlife Mudzingwa, one of the leaders of the #Tajamuka/Sesijikile campaign told journalists that the protests would continue in the face of threats by Zanu-PF youths and security agencies. He added that the campaign was aimed at the socio-economic and political problems that were plaguing the country under President Mugabe.#Tajamuka #ThisFlag citizens call for another stay away Wed 31 Aug. This peaceful statement to say enough is enough pic.twitter.com/AZssoDeVwt"We don't have time to respond to empty threats by Zanu-PF, but let me just inform you that the young people in this country have suffered for a long time and we will not allow any unruly elements to continue what they used to do, which is violence," Mudzingwa was quoted as saying.Meanwhile, Youth Advocacy for Reform and Democracy (Yard) leader Temba Mliswa, urged the protesters to change their strategy and instead march to Mugabe's official residence - the State House, according to reports.He called on protesters to avoid demonstrating in areas that would leave ordinary citizens vulnerable to violence."State House is there and let's all march there. That is the march I am looking forward to and that is the march you will see me leading too. The day you decide to march to State House you can count on me because it's a meaningful march. We will be taking to his office and say you are not hearing us and we are now coming to your home," Mliswa was quoted as saying. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.