Lizeka Tandwa, News24 Duncan Village resident Ntombikayise Mvandaba. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An East London resident tells us why he is disgruntled with the ANC and wants to encourage people in his community to vote for the DA. Watch. WATCH Eastern Cape - Duncan Village resident Ntombikayise Mvandaba says she has lost all hope of ever living in a house. Mvandaba lives in a shack in the area. "We do not have anything. I sell tripe to make a living and that is all we have. My mother stayed in a shack, I stay in a shack and I believe that my children will never leave a shack," she said. However, she said despite this, her vote would always belong to the ANC because she had "seen a change" in her life thanks to the party. She said under the ANC her daughter was able to complete matric. Her daughter was the first in her family to do so. She was moved to tears as she encouraged others to vote for the ANC. "We have to vote because we need to give a black leader a chance. I stay in the squatters, but I know that a black person will help me... Because of our leaders my kids have been able to go to school," she said. "We can't vote for a white party because I would never have these rights that I enjoy today. Things would turn bad. I am sad when I think of how I suffer, but the ANC can make a change in my life." Gladys Steveson who sells sweets on the streets of Duncan Village echoed Mvandaba's words, saying that the only way South Africans can make a change was to vote. She said she encouraged her family and neighbours to vote. "I am struggling to make ends meet. I pay R50 every month for water to the municipality. We live a tough life. I will vote for the ANC but we will vote just for the sake of voting. All we want is for them to keep their promises," she said. - Find everything you need to know about the 2016 Local Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections, or download the app for iOS and Android.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  