Jenna Etheridge, News24Ross Suterhad has fallen from Table Mountain. (Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Last Tuesday morning a tour operator captured this footage of a base-jumper, using a wing suit, jumping off Table Mountain and gliding effortlessly into a field below. Watch. WATCHCape Town - An experienced mountain guide and climber probably has his helmet to thank for escaping major injury after an 8m fall on Table Mountain at the weekend.Ross Suterhad had taken two climbers up African Ledge on Saturday afternoon, before falling and fracturing his arm and injuring his head, according to Wilderness Search and Rescue spokesperson Johann Marais.The rescue team and a specialist doctor took the cable car up to where he had fallen, and abseiled from it to access and treat him.He was then hoisted back into the cable car and taken down the mountain."It was interesting because he was very calm and matter-of-fact," his partner Lori Lake told News24 on Monday."He phoned me around 5pm [17:00] and said, 'I have had a fall, I think I might have broken my arm. I am fine.' It all felt fine. It was only when seeing the scale of the rescue that it hit home how hectic it was."Outdoors manLake praised the rescue team for their work and reassuring updates.Suter&rsquo;s head was wrapped up in bandages, but he was on his feet and coherent.He went for an operation on his arm on Monday. A CT scan revealed that his head was fine.Suter has at least 40 years of mountain experience and holds rock climbing guide and mountain walking guide qualifications.Lake said she was not yet sure what had led to the fall."At some point in any climber&rsquo;s life there has to be a fall," she said."He&rsquo;s been climbing all his life. He is incredibly comfortable, careful and patient. He is able to slow down and be there for his clients."She said if he had not been wearing a helmet, the outcome of the fall would have been very different.An outdoors man at heart, Suter was likely to feel very frustrated in the weeks of recovery ahead."One of his hobbies is photographing flowers and orchid season is coming up. That might be how he works his way through this," said Lake. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.