Chelsea Pieterse, The WitnessThree-month-old Junior was shot and killed after Mountain Rise police received a tip-off that his owners were in danger. Police said Junior rushed at them aggressively before he was shot. (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg - A devastated Northdale family are threatening to press charges against Mountain Rise police for shooting and killing their three-month-old puppy on Wednesday night.Police entered a property on Wednesday afternoon on a tip-off that a man with an illegal firearm was inside the house, with the occupants of the house in &ldquo;imminent&rdquo; danger. The police entered the property through the garden gate, and then broke the lock of the security gate to gain entry to the house.A three-month-old pitbull then allegedly rushed at the police before he was shot through the neck.The heartbroken owner of the dog, Yumna Khan, said she had arrived home late on Wednesday afternoon to find police at her house, and her puppy dead in the garden. &ldquo;We heard police received a tip-off that there was an unlicensed firearm inside the house, but only my mom and I live there and we work during the day.&ldquo;There was no one at home,&rdquo; said Khan.She added that the television had been left on and police told her they heard voices and broke the lock on the gate.Rescue dog &ldquo;Junior [the puppy] was only three months old and he was not aggressive at all. He was a rescue dog that I was nursing back to health. He could not even jump onto my bed without help because he was so weak.&ldquo;He was my baby. From the second I saw him, I loved him. I would not have cared if they searched the house if they had just left Junior alone.&rdquo;Khan&rsquo;s mother, Shaida, arrived home in the evening, sobbing as she climbed out of the car.&ldquo;You are supposed to serve and protect but you kill a three-month-old puppy who only has milk teeth,&rdquo; she shouted at police outside her home.She became hysterical when she walked into the yard and found Junior, lifeless, outside the front door.&ldquo;There are worse things, but you come here and kill my baby. How can you do this?&rdquo; she sobbed.'Imminent danger'Mountain Rise police spokesperson Captain Gay Ebrahim said police had received information that a man with an unlicensed firearm was inside the house with the occupants.&ldquo;The information they received was that they were in imminent danger and when they arrived at the premises, the side gate and the front door were open.&rdquo;Ebrahim said the burglar gate was locked so they had broken the lock to gain entry.&ldquo;One of the dogs rushed toward the police. He was vicious and the police officer thought he was going to be bitten,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;The duty officer will investigate the scene tonight [Wednesday night] and an internal inquiry will be opened to ascertain if the officers&rsquo; actions were justifiable.&rdquo;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.