Zila Mkonto Members of the Msimango clan who travelled from all corners of South Africa to meet in Khayelitsha. PHOTOS: teddy sambu Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories They came from all corners of South Africa to celebrate their ancestral lineage and also strengthen the ethos of ubuntu. More than 80 members of the Msimango clan met at Khaya Bed &amp; Breakfast in Litha Park over the weekend.Msimango Clan national executive member Khauta Msimang who travelled from Bloemfontein said the structure was launched in 1912 but was revived in 2011. We felt it was important to revive what our forefathers started with a view of developing the clan across the country, said Msimang.Since 2011, they have held reunions in Joburg, Zimbabwe, Durban, Flagstaff, Ficksberg and in the Cape. The aim of the clan forum is to empower each other. We have investment and education portfolios where we make sure that we cultivate a future for all Msimangos who are part of this group, he said.This year s theme was Sazane, Sincedane, Sihlangane, Sithandane. Cape Town branch leader Lundi Mkonjeni said the forum plays an important role in their lives. We have Msimangos across the Southern Africa and through research we are able to meet and rewrite our own history. We hav e families in Lesotho, Zimbabwe and elsewhere, said Mkonjeni.The forum s treasurer Boss Jobela said the importance of the three-day gathering was that it created a sense of unity and purpose We have young members who are well poised to take our plans into the future.This forum wants all clan members to benefit in business ventures that some of us are involved in, said Jobela whose bread and breakfast place accomodated all the visiting members. We have a lot of planning to do for our next reunion which will be in September in King Williamstown, he said.Nomfusi Mkumatela from Port Elizabeth said she learnt a lot during the gathering. This forum will ensure that Msimangos stay united and focused in their vision, .24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.