Mandla Mahashe Members of the Masizimisele Community Development and Nursing Project celebrated another year of poverty alleviation. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Langa is one of the oldest townships in the city and as such it has the largest population of the elderly in the province.These senior citizens include the frail and those living alone who neither have the funds nor family support to enjoy a healthy diet. The Masizimisele Community Development and Nursing Project is an organisation that runs the Meals on Wheels initiative. This initiative delivers food to these frail and lonely elders in the Langa area for a nominal fee of only R30 per month. They say the fee is not even compulsory, although it helps with the running of the project. On Tuesday, the organisation held their Annual General Meeting, celebrating their success since their modest beginnings. Nombuyiselo Nonkonyane, chairperson, said that they were happy that four years after they began, they were still going strong. Langa is the oldest township but still under developed, with poverty being still a major hurdle for the people. Its ageing population is suffering in silence as most pensioners either live by themselves, with other ageing siblings or children who care little for them. We started this organisation so that at least they can have a nutritious meal delivered to their household(everyday), said Nonkonyane.She said they have 30 beneficiaries on their books but also helped many others as some requests come from the community. She said that the turnaround for them began when they received financial support from the social development department. We are hoping to help more but we have to encourage people to consider the option of going to old age homes. Yes, there are incidents of abuse at these places, but they can t all be bad. At those centers there are people that are there to take care of you rather than being locked up in a cold house on your own, she told the members in attendance. She said that the meals are prepared at the home of one of the committee members. The organisation s treasurer Thandi Tena thanked the members and shared the financial spending of the last year. She also noted that that they were looking for more financial support so that they can increase the number of beneficiaries. One member, Nomsa Maliza, heeded the call and committed that her family will be donating R100 a month towards the0 running of the project.The gesture was well received by all in attendance. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.