Victoria Road bridge in Plumstead is being refurbished to improve safety. Work on this bridge started in March and if all goes well it s expected to be completed in the next three weeks. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Around R7.3m is being spent on the refurbishment of the Victoria Road bridge over the southern suburbs railway line in Plumstead.Brett Herron, Mayco member for transport says: Road users travelling along Dalegarth and Cannon roads often crash into the Victoria Road bridge, mainly because they underestimate the height of their vehicles or load when driving under the bridge. This happens despite the signboards along Dalegarth and Cannon roads warning drivers of the 3.8m height restriction ahead. Due to this, parts of the concrete underneath the bridge have become dislodged over time. Repair work commenced on 30 Marchwith the underside of the bridge, or bridge soffit, as well as special measures to reduce the risk of concrete falling on pedestrians and motorists passing underneath. The most important aspect is the installation of two fender beams or crash barriers. Each fender beam is 10.5m long and incorporates steel armouring to withstand the impact of vehicles crashing into the deck soffit, says Herron.The reinforced concrete precast beams span the roadway width and are supported on reinforced concrete columns, similar to the existing pier columns. The new fender beams will improve the safety of all road users, and are intended to protect the bridge structure. That said, I want to remind road users to please take note of the 3.8m height restriction of the Victoria Road bridge. It happens far too often that drivers simply ignore the warning signs, or even worse, are unaware of the height of their vehicles and loads, warns Herron.The two staircases, parapets, abutment walls, concrete surfaces and bridge piers have been repaired, and new coatings were applied to improve the durability as well as the visible aesthetics of the structure. The bridge deck was also resurfaced and new deck expansion joints were installed. The project is progressing well, despite the inclement weather that we have been experiencing over the past few days. If all goes as planned, the refurbishment should be completed within the next three weeks or so. I am confident that the new measures will reduce the likelihood of damage to the bridge deck and that residents will notice the new renovated look of the Victoria Road bridge, concludes Herron.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.