Tammy Petersen, News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Public Protector candidate Advocate Muvhango Lukhaimane has received a clearance certificate from the police confirming that she has no criminal record, the office of the Pension Funds Adjudicator (OPFA) said on Thursday. Lukhaimane, currently employed as Pension Funds Adjudicator, is one of five candidates who made the list for consideration for the position currently held by Thuli Madonsela, along with judges Sharise Weiner and Siraj Desai, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane and Professor Bongani Majola. During last week's interviews, Lukhaimane was grilled over apparent criminal charges of common assault and dealing in liquor illegally. She responded that she was never on the scene where the alleged selling of liquor took place, arguing that the charge came from a corrupt officer. Lukhaimane had apparently been found not guilty of the assault. In a statement issued by the office of the Pension Funds Adjudicator (OPFA), Lukhaimane "took strong exception" to the allegations. Corrected error It said she had indicated that she has never been charged nor stood trial for any criminal matter and that both matters related to third parties. "Ms Lukhaimane has since sought clarity on the alleged criminal record from the South African Police Services. On 18 August, SAPS issued Ms Lukhaimane with a clearance certificate confirming that she has no criminal record," the statement said. Lukhaimane was appointed the country's fifth Pension Funds Adjudicator in July 2013. "Over the years, we have worked with Ms Lukhaimane without any concerns relating to her good standing both in her personal and professional capacity." It called the criminal cases "an error that has since been corrected". "The damage that this might have caused to the OPFA's reputation that we have nurtured over the past few years is regrettable, just as much the damage to Ms Lukhaimane's own personal reputation." The multi-party committee will meet on Wednesday to make its final Public Protector selection. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  