Humbelani Nengovhela, News24 CorrespondentJohannesburg - An ex-mistress of detained Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir was denied bail&nbsp;in the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court on Thursday.Marissa Christopher, 37, is facing four charges of corruption and conspiracy to help a prisoner escape. She was arrested a month ago, when she visited Krejcir at Zonderwater Prison in Pretoria. She allegedly tried to bribe prison officials and smuggled cellphones into his cell during his court hearings, between November 2013 and April 2016.&nbsp;Her co-accused are Krejcir and three prison officials with whom she allegedly conspired.&nbsp;Krejcir is a Czech criminal fugitive who has been behind bars in South Africa since 2013. In August last year, the High Court in Johannesburg found him guilty of kidnapping, attempted drug dealing, and attempted murder. He was sentenced to an effective 35 years in jail in February this year. The State had argued that Christopher was an evasive and dishonest person. According to home affairs records, Christopher was not her only surname. She had obtained another identity document in which her surname was Davidson, and had not disclosed this to the court.Christopher's lawyer, Piet Du Plessis, argued that she was a South African citizen with a proven residential address. The magistrate pointed out that Christopher had multiple residential addresses and was renting. She had multiple passports which were obtained in a short space of time.&nbsp;In court on Thursday, Christopher kept looking back at the public gallery where her relatives were seated. She waved at them and kept whispering that she was okay.The court found that, even though Christopher had medical conditions, they did not justify granting her bail. Although she had a child, the State had said it had a good relationship with Christopher&rsquo;s mother and would be taken care of. The matter was postponed to August 26 for trial.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.