File: AFP Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Zimbabwean War veterans have reportedly told President Robert Mugabe to ditch the Generation 40, which is largely believed to be allied to his wife Grace, if he wants to work with them again. Harare &ndash; Zimbabwe's main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), has said that it will never regret supporting the country's embattled former freedom fighters. In a press statement sent to News24, the MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu said that his party would continue to support genuine war veterans who were being "persecuted" by the ruling Zanu-PF government. "&hellip;The MDC will always show its support for and solidarity with all the toiling and down&ndash;trodden masses of Zimbabwe, regardless of political affiliation," said Gutu. Gutu said the MDC was against the persecution of the country's war veterans. &nbsp;&nbsp;Gutu's remarks came just less than a month after Douglas Mahiya, a spokesperson for the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, was arrested in Harare.He, however, was released on $300 bail.&nbsp;Following Mahiya's successful bail application at the Harare Magistrate&rsquo;s Court, the ex-freedom fighters&rsquo; secretary general, Victor Matemadanda, was also arrested.Their arrests came just a week after the group had issued a statement&nbsp;in which they&nbsp;slammed Mugabe's "dictatorial tendencies" and accused him of&nbsp;presiding over a declining economy.The veterans of the country's 1970s liberation war, normally staunch allies of President Robert Mugabe, vowed they would not support him if he sought re-election in 2018."The MDC has got absolutely no brief for both Matemadanda and Mahiya; we are a political party that tenaciously and resolutely believes in the rule of law as opposed to the rule by the law. Thus, the MDC shall continue to denounce the continued and uncalled for harassment of all genuine war veterans by the beleaguered and faction-ridden Zanu PF regime," Gutu said.He said that Zimbabweans deserved a new beginning. "The MDC is the government-in-waiting and we are not going to disappoint the long-suffering masses of Zimbabwe. Victory is within touching distance. The enemy is cornered and anguished," Gutu said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.