Amanda Khoza, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; While the voting process for the office bearers for the eThekwini metro was taking place inside the Durban City Hall, some members of the ANC expressed their dissatisfaction about councillors who they believe have been imposed on them. &nbsp;Angel Luthaka from Ward 80 said her community was not happy with councillor Mthokozisi Nojiyeza who was being sworn in inside the hall because they felt he was imposed on them by the ANC. "The person that is going to be allocated to us in Ward 80 is not the candidate that we chose. The ANC has chosen their own candidate and they are not paying regard to what we are saying. "The person who they brought to us does not even pay attention to us or even come to the community."Mdu Dlamini from Ward 19 in Clermont said the community did not recognise councillor Bheki Vumbu who was being sworn inside the hall. "We have lodged disputes with the ANC and the IEC and we are still waiting for the outcomes. If the ANC does not listen to Clermont, we will turn it into Inchanga," he threatened. Politically-motivated murders Dlamini was referring to the ongoing tensions plaguing Inchanga, west of Durban, which is the home of outgoing Mayor James Nxumalo.There have been simmering tensions between SACP-aligned and ANC-aligned members in the area leading up to the 2016 local government elections. On Sunday SACP-aligned Nonsikelelo Blose, 40, was shot and killed, allegedly in full view of community members. It was alleged that she was killed by an ANC-aligned member. On Monday morning, in what was believed to be a revenge attack, a member of the ANC, Xolani Ngcobo, was shot and stoned to death. About 15 people have been killed in the province in the lead up to and following the local government elections.Inside the city hall nomination, voting and counting of the ballots for the new eThekwini municipality speaker went smoothly. Clapping and cheers for EFF Earlier on Tuesday, councillors were sworn into office. The nomination and swearing in of office bearers, which includes the mayor, deputy mayor and the speaker, was still expected to take place.ANC councillors, who are in the majority, were first to be sworn in. The party's mayoral candidate Zandile Gumede appeared to be distracted during the swearing in process. She spoke to councillors Fawza Peer, who stood next to her, and it took her a while before she joined other councillors who were repeating their oath after Chief Magistrate Edmond Ngubane. When newcomers, the EFF, who have eight seats, were sworn in, the DA clapped and cheered for the young party. Members of the ANC and some people in the gallery booed. The ANC's Lucky Nhlanhla Mngwenge nominated Lekgoa William Mapena to be the speaker, while the DA's Zwakele Mngcwango nominated Warren Burn amid booing. 'Profound honour'Mapena was elected speaker of the municipality with 131 votes to loud cheers.Burn received 8 votes and there were 5 spoilt votes. Of the 220 councillors, municipal manager Sbu Sithole said 216 councillors were present for the vote in the city hall. It was not immediately clear where the other four councillors were. After being sworn in, Mapena thanked the ANC and councillors who elected him into office. "It is such a profound honour to be the house chairperson&hellip; nominated by the ANC on behalf of you councillors."He quoted a Bible scripture saying he needed to pause and reflect on the occasion. "I am deeply grateful for the rich legacy [left by my predecessors] and I hope that I will not disappoint the organisation in how I execute my duties. I am aware that I should not be consumed by this position and forget the work that needs to be done," said Mapena.He urged councillors to deliver on the promises made during the election campaign.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.