Jeff Wicks, News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On Wednesday EFF leader Julius Malema said the EFF has rejected a formal coalition with the ANC and the DA, but will vote with the DA in Johannesburg, Tshwane, Nelson Mandela Bay and Ekurhuleni. Watch. 

WATCH Johannesburg - The Economic Freedom Fighters have accused the ANC’s Dan Bovu of offering their councillors hundreds of thousands of rands in exchange for votes in the Johannesburg City Council election on Monday. Bovu is a member of the Mayoral Committee. EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement that they would be opening a criminal case of bribery and corruption against Bovu. "Dan Bovu, who thinks our democracy is up for sale. Dan Bovu has been calling our councillors, offering them money to the value of R500 000 in exchange for them to vote with the ANC during the elections of the Johannesburg City Council tomorrow," he said. "The ANC must concede defeat and not try win elections through corruption. Even if they were to be successful on Monday to buy any councillor candidate, their mayor will not last, because political parties have the right to replace councillors. We will therefore do so and ensure that the ANC is out of power in Johannesburg," he said. Bovu to open case against EFF "The EFF's votes are not up for sale, be it money or positions. We are going to punish the ANC in Johannesburg, which has failed to transform people's lives for the past 22 years. We are going to punish them for all the arrogance of choosing to protect corruption at the expense of the people," Ndlozi added. The ANC in Johannesburg released a statement on Sunday on Bovu’s behalf. "I have noted with great concern the serious, defamatory and spurious allegations of bribery that the EFF is making against me to bribe their Johannesburg councillors. “It must be stated that I have never met EFF councillors, nor have I offered anyone bribes to vote with the ANC. I intend to open a case of defamation against my character by the EFF," the statement reads. "Since the election results were announced, the ANC has been in dialogue with other parties who are clear that they do not represent an agenda that seeks to reverse the democratic gains we as ANC have achieved since 1994." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  