Paul Herman, News24Alroy Davey (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The wife of a cyclist who was seriously injured in a hit-and-run has said she will forgive the perpetrator if he or she comes forward and apologises.Alroy Davey, 53, a member of the Kinetic Cycling Club, was seriously injured after an unknown vehicle rammed into him on Klipheuwel Road near Durbanville over the weekend. His wife Linda told News24 on Thursday that she only wants an apology from the perpetrator. "I am child of God, I'm a forgiver. If the person will just come forward and say sorry, that will really help,"&nbsp;she&nbsp;said."It's really not on. The doctor said it could have been much worse. If he had landed on his head, he would have died."Alroy underwent a second operation on Wednesday night to his pelvis, his ribs and his sternum. Linda said the operation went well and he would now start the long road to recovery. "It was a success, he is feeling much better and he is awake," Linda continued."The physio said he will have to spend three months in a wheelchair, but he will walk and he has feeling, so that is great news."New evidence"My biggest fear was that he wouldn't recover. But he sounds positive and he will be fine, so I'm feeling much better."Linda also said police had found a scratch of white paint on her husband's bike, allegedly from the double cab bakkie that hit Alroy from behind, and would conduct tests on it. Investigators were reviewing CCTV footage of the incident on Thursday in the hopes of identifying the vehicle's registration number, O'Ryan Bruintjies, chairperson of the Kinetic Cycling Club, told News24.He said the investigators have ruled out a bumper found at the crime scene as being connected to the incident.It was an "old bumper" that had been there all along, Bruintjies said. Police told News24 on Wednesday night that a case of reckless and negligent driving was being investigated. No arrests have yet been made.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.