Wim Pretorius, News24Supporters of the Thulsie twins at the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court. (Wim Pretorius, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie appeared briefly in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday for their bail application, only to have the matter postponed yet again.The application could not continue due to the outstanding matter in the South Gauteng High Court to have the ruling of the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court - that the arrest of the twins was lawful - reviewed. State attorney Chris MacAdam told the court that the defence had indicated that certain transcripts relevant to the review were outstanding, meaning they could not&nbsp;proceed with the matter; and with the review still pending, they could also not continue with the bail application.MacAdam told the court that investigations would also have to be conducted outside of the country. Much to the disappointment of the twins and their family members, the bail application was postponed to October 11, with the twins remaining in custody until then. Ruling 'not fair' A small group of people gathered outside the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court in support of the twins.They were carrying banners with the words "Free the twins. They deserve a fair trial. Bail must be granted", while some wore T-shirts with the words "Free Thulsie twins" printed on them. A friend of the twins, Igsaan Choc, said they were there to support their close friends."We are close friends, coming from the same area and we attend the same mosque," Choc told News24. He added that they just wanted to see a fair trial and believed the twins deserved to be out on bail. A family member of the twins said he believed the ruling made by Magistrate Pieter du Plessis, deeming the arrest of the brothers lawful, was not fair. "We want a fair trial because what happened earlier was not fair," he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.