Karabo Ngoepe, News24Kgosientso Ramokgopa. (File, Beeld) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The ANC's Tshwane chairperson, Kgosientso Ramokgopa, says running a Tshwane where the ANC has control of the majority of wards, will be a challenge for the alliance of political parties voting with the DA. &nbsp;Ramokgopa's statements come as the party prepares itself to be the official opposition in the municipality.He pointed out that despite the ANC not being in control in the council, they had control of the majority of the wards in the region.He said the mayor and the rest of the team that will be appointed, will have to deal with going to address communities that are ANC strongholds."We are not in government, so when there is a service delivery protest in Atteridgeville I can't go and address it, the mayor must go. If there is a strike by Samwu, I can't address it. If there is a land invasion, the mayor must go. We will be waiting to listen to the mayor. When there is an imbizo, we will be there as members of the community and the mayor will tell us how they will provide services," he said.Apart from having to deal with crowds in ANC strongholds, the mayor would have to endure working with ANC councillors in those areas and have them introducing him to the crowd, he added.Waiting to see alliance's 'true colours'"When the mayor is there, the ward councillor will do the welcome and 68 of these wards are under ANC control. The welcome includes many other things. He will say 'here is the mayor he is here to see us. We said we want houses but we are still waiting'. It's more complicated than you think it's the case," said Ramokgopa.He said another test for the alliance of political parties in the council will come when they have to vote on matters that pertain to the advancement of agendas to improve the lives of the poor."I don't know if those who will be voting with the DA to have a mayor will be opposed to us relocating the informal settlements of Mamelodi into the affluent areas so that we build them better houses," Ramokgopa told reporters on Tuesday."I'm not sure if those voting with the DA will be opposed to us in ensuring we industrialise townships. I'm not sure if they will be opposed when we say the heritage and monuments of the city must be reflective of the demographics."When we put this agenda, we will see the true colours of this alliance."- Find everything you need to know about the 2016 Local Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections, or download the app for iOS and Android.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.