Paul Herman, News24Paramedics attend to the scene of a crash in Atlantis, Western Cape. (Supplied, ER24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The traffic licence examiner who was killed in an accident with a learner driver in Atlantis after a truck ploughed into their car was "well loved and respected".The 21-year-old learner driver was driving the car at the time of the incident.Media liaison and inspector for Cape Town Maxine Jordaan told News24 that an incident like that had not happened in a "very long time", and the 41-year-old officer would be missed.&nbsp;"We are deeply saddened by the accident. It's the first in a very long time," she said on Friday."It was a very sad thing and happened right around the corner from the traffic department and the fire station"He was well loved and much respected." Jordaan said she was not allowed to give out the names of either victim, but did say that the young learner driver was from Edgemead.She also said they couldn't speculate on what happened while police investigation was ongoing. "The accident is still being investigated by the SAPS and we are awaiting their findings. There is speculation but nothing concrete, so I can't confirm what happened yet." Culpable homicide probeWestern Cape police meanwhile told News24 on Friday that a case of culpable homicide was being investigated, News24 reported.The truck had driven over the entire front section of the learner driver's car on the corner of Charl Uys and Neil Hare roads at 10:30 on Thursday.- PIC: 2 killed as truck drives over learner driver "Both died on the scene. The driver of the truck survived the accident," Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut said. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said on Thursday that paramedics had to use special tools, as well as a heavy rescue crane, to lift the truck off the vehicle and retrieve the bodies.The two victims were found lying motionless inside the car.The driver of the truck sustained minor injuries, and was taken to a nearby hospital, Meiring added.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.