Beatrice Shongwe, News24 Correspondent Pastor Nonhlahla Sidu, who says it is very painful to be discriminated against for who you are. (Beatrice Shongwe, News24 Correspondent) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Mpho Tutu van Furth says church has come "too far" on gay issues to turn back.WATCHMbombela - An ordained lesbian pastor, Nonhlahla Sidu, 34, says it is very painful to be discriminated against for who you are, but she will continue to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sidu is a preacher at the gay- and lesbian-friendly church Ark of Joy Christian Ministries in Nelspruit."I have a good relationship with my congregation. I am respected as an elder of the church and as an ordained preacher. I am even addressed as Bab' Sidu," said Sidu."We are one despite the fact that you are a lesbian or gay. We need not judge one another; the judge is one God Himself. I have thought that because of Christ I will not entertain what others have to say. To be discriminated against by other churches and pastors will not stop me from serving the living God and preaching the Gospel," said Sidu.Sidu was once married to a man and has a 16-year-old son. She says she realised her true sexual orientation in 2008."In 2008 I realised that I am lesbian. When I look back when I was a toddler, I didn't play with dolls like any girls. I preferred to play with my brothers in whatever games they were playing," she added.Against the BibleSidu said she was looking forward to getting married soon."I am in a relationship and I am looking forward to pay lobola soon for the woman I love, and I can't wait to walk on the aisle with her and marry her to be my future wife," she added.She had praise for current laws that allow same sex marriages. However, she decried the fact that lesbians and gays are still subjected to abuse and violence, including rape, without consequences. Churchgoer Sibusisiwe Fakudze from Matsulu was unsympathetic, saying the Bible does not condone homosexuality, and quoted Genesis 1:27, saying, "'So God created mankind in his own image; in the image of God he created them; male and female he created them'. It doesn't say men and men.""I would like to believe that something isn't right with these people. You are born a girl and change when you are older to be a man?"24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.