ZimPF Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories "I've committed no crime." Those are the words of Zimbabwe's protest pastor Evan Mawarire who has been filmed in handcuffs at Harare's main police station shortly after his arrest on his return from six months in exile.Harare - A spokesperson for the Zimbabwe People First party is facing criminal charges for insinuating in a tweet that Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo committed fraud,&nbsp;NewsDay&nbsp;reported on Friday.Jealous Mawarire was charged with allegedly contravening the Posts and Telecommunications Act. His lawyer Dzimbabwe Chimbga accompanied him when he handed himself to police on Thursday.The State alleges that on June 24, he posted a tweet accusing Moyo of failing to account for $114 000 raised from the sale of a building, when he was still Information minister.The tweet read: &ldquo;Jonathan Moyo and Tsitsi Mabukucha sold Kingstons building, can&rsquo;t account for $114000, not arrested.&rdquo;This the tweet forming the basis of Moyo's 3-paged affidavit he signed laying charges against me. pic.twitter.com/GAIcyylxdYMawarire said police indicated they were not yet ready for trial, as they were still investigating the matter.They said they will give the lawyers when they are ready to go to court. They claim investigations r still going on. https://t.co/Y4JtuFGtgNThe arrest of Mawarire has caused an outrage on social media after lawyer and President Robert Mugabe critic Alex Magaisa blasted the arrest on Twitter&nbsp;When Mujuru was abused Moyo said it was just political banter. Now I hear Mujuru's spokesperson has been charged for a tweet to Moyo!@Wamagaisa If Prof was right to say political banter when did it become reality? Bcoz allegations still stand? What are we not seeing here?@Wamagaisa can one be sued for what they say in court? If not then this is opportunity to give Moyo a bruised nose24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.