Jenni Evans, News24Sinoxolo Mafevuka (Unknown) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The case against two cousins accused of raping and murdering Sinoxolo Mafevuka and stuffing her into a communal toilet could be transferred to the High Court soon.&ldquo;Finally it seems to be moving,&rdquo; Social Justice Coalition community support officer Nomthetho Kilo said outside the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court on Friday.&ldquo;We have been here more than 11 times. At last it looks like it might be going to the High Court,&rdquo; she said on the sidelines of a picket against gender-based violence in Khayelitsha.The cousins made a quick appearance in court to hear that the case would be postponed to September 2.The duo may not be named for their safety. Relatives had already been told to demolish the home they lived in.The court heard that the investigation had not been completed yet. The State also needed to prepare the paperwork to transfer the case to the High Court, which had the authority to impose stiffer sentences for serious crimes.Their lawyer Thabo Nogemane confirmed the date and the two slightly built men left the court to go back to jail to wait for their next appearance.'No change in&nbsp;Khayelitsha'&nbsp;Kilo said conditions in Khayelitsha had not changed since Mafevuka's rape and murder. It was still unsafe to walk, and children and women were targeted for crime.&ldquo;They have horse patrols near the malls and in the formal settlements, but in the informal settlements, there is nothing. They need to also patrol there.&rdquo;EFF leader Julius Malema visited her family when he campaigned in the area for the August 3 elections. He was taken to the communal water taps and toilets that part of the suburb uses. Last month, Magistrate Xolani Menyiwe said he could not guarantee that the cousins' release would not jeopardise public order as the community was shocked at the young girl's violent death.The accused, cousins of Mafevuka's boyfriend, are accused of raping and killing the 19-year-old on March 2 and dumping her body in a communal ablution block in SST Block in Town Two.A post-mortem confirmed she had been strangled. Her naked body was found slumped over a toilet. Her clothes had been stuffed into the cistern. Water from the leaking toilet is believed to have washed DNA evidence away.Police claimed the two were angered by her leaving a Khayelitsha tavern with another man, while their cousin was making plans to marry her. Police were still investigating if he played a role in the crime.Meanwhile, outside the court, the SJC sang: &ldquo;How can we be okay if women are being raped?&rdquo;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.