Jenna Etheridge, News24 A possible dog fighting site that was discovered in Grabouw, along with dog carcass. The dog was hung from the wire in the tree. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – A possible dogfighting
site has been uncovered in Cape Town, but little can be done without witnesses
coming forward with evidence. A tree
with wires and cords, for hanging dogs, was discovered a few hundred metres from
an informal settlement in Grabouw last week. Animal
inspector Rico Pentz found a dog carcass
there that was a few weeks old. Ropes were found on a tree about 10m away. “I think
the dog was used as a bait dog. What they do is tie a dog up to a tree and train their dogs to attack that
dog,” Pentz said on Thursday. “When
they are done, they hang it up to show ‘this is what my dog can do’.” Those
responsible used animals that could not fend for themselves and would not hurt
their fighter dogs. Sometimes pet dogs are stolen from people's yards for this
purpose. Pentz,
the kennel manager at Animal Welfare Helderberg, said it was extremely
difficult to track down those responsible. “The
people that live there are too scared to talk about it because then they will
get death threats.” He said
a lot of money is involved in dogfighting,
a common phenomenon across the metro. Police required proof in the form of
witnesses, photos or video. “It is
only one in every 100 cases that can actually be said there was success,” said Pentz. He
believed those involved in dogfighting
should face jail time rather than just a fine. Dogfighting was prohibited by the Animals Protection
Act and often associated with organised syndicates. According
to the Cape of Good Hope SPCA's website, dogfighting
was part of a criminal subculture that sometimes included illegal gambling,
drugs, theft, and the destruction of communities. “Illegal
gambling is an inherent part of a dogfight, and because money changes hands,
weapons are common on the scene,” it said on its website.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  