DA leader digs at majority party during commemorations in Marikana.WATCHCape Town - A Marikana memorial erected by the Western Cape Economic Freedom Fighters on the Sea Point promenade was taken down by metro police on Tuesday morning, but the party is confident it still got their message across. Roscoe Palm, editor of the party's provincial website, said many people were supportive of the memorial which featured white crosses planted on the promenade lawn. "Many people didn't know that today was the anniversary [of the massacre]," he told News24. "There is a lot of [foot] traffic on the promenade and we thought these were the right kind of people to get the message to." He said the crosses were up for about three hours before they were removed by the metro police. "Everyone was 100% supportive and all kinds of people engaged with us. We felt it had a positive effect. We all need to remember Marikana." Palm refused to remove the crosses when ordered to do so by authorities and they were subsequently confiscated. He got a R1 000 fine for contravening a public parks by-law. "People lost their lives [in Marikana]. I am lucky that I experienced the even-handedness of the law," he said. More protests planned Palm plans to get the crosses back and that people of the Western Cape can expect more silent, non-violent protests on various issues. "We will do more demonstrations to encourage dialogue." Priya Reddy, spokesperson for the City of Cape Town, told News24 that the erection of the memorial was in violation of the public parks by-law of 2010. "In this case, the crosses were erected without the city's permission and in contravention of the public parks by-law which is put in place to protect public property. While members of the public can apply for a permit for a temporary art installation, no such application was received in this case," she stated. The transgression carries a fine of R500 and according to Reddy in this case a second fine of R500 was issued for "failing to comply with a lawful instruction to remove the items". She said anyone who wants to erect similar memorials or structures should apply to the city's arts and culture department for a permit. Marikana comnemoration comes to sea point promenade. @EFFSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/sYCOSFmzqF#RememberMarikana R1000 fine plus court appearance. For what? @Julius_S_Malema @EFFSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/fRNY0s78cw&mdash; Roscoe Palm (@RoscoeHPalm) August 16, 2016 #RememberMarikana R1000 fine plus court appearance. For what? @Julius_S_Malema @EFFSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/fRNY0s78cw&mdash; Roscoe Palm (@RoscoeHPalm) August 16, 2016 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.