Karabo Ngoepe, News24Students wait for the announcement of the results of the disciplinary hearing against Luvuyo Menziwa. (Perdeby, Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The University of Pretoria has confirmed that the SRC member who took to Facebook to say he would kill whites using a bazooka or AK47 has been suspended from his position."In terms of its internal code of conduct, the SRC of the University of Pretoria has suspended Mr Luvuyo Menziwa, SRC study finances officer, from the membership of the SRC," spokesperson Anna-Retha Bouwer said."This is on account of the publication of offensive statements attributed to Mr Menziwa on social media, and subsequently on various other media platforms."He put up a post on Facebook expressing his hatred for white people. "Reasons I hate white people: white privilege, white dominance, white arrogance, white monopoly capital and white superiority. Fuck white people, just get me a bazooka or AK47 so I can do the right thing and kill these demon possed [sic] humans."Menziwa ended his post by quoting Steve Biko,"The basic tenet of black consciousness is that the black man must reject all value systems that seek to make him a foreigner in the country of his birth and reduce his basic human dignity."Case openedBouwer said the institution has initiated an investigation into the matter. "An urgent investigation has been launched by the university in terms of its disciplinary code for students with a view to instituting the applicable disciplinary proceedings without any further delay. Hate speech and incitement to violence will not be tolerated at the University of Pretoria," she said.Meanwhile, the UP AfriForum Youth has opened a case with the Brooklyn police.Spokesperson Henrico Barnard said they opened a case with police and laid a complaint with the university. "We laid a complaint with the SRC against the individual and also at the university management. We already had success in removing him as a SRC member but we also laid a complaint with management to have him removed as a University of Pretoria student. We laid a charge of intimidation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence with the police," he said. Police spokesperson Captain Colette Weilbach confirmed that a case had been opened. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.