Miranda Mabaso, News24A burnt-out car and generator that the robbers used is inspected near the scene. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Hazyview - Police&nbsp;are hunting for&nbsp;a brazen gang who made off with an undisclosed amount of cash after they rammed, shot at, and then bombed an SBV cash van on the road between the Mpumalanga townships of Mkhuhlu and Ximhungwe on Wednesday.Calcutta police spokesperson Captain Philip Fakude said the SBV van was on its way to the Spar Supermarket in Ximhungwe when a grey Mercedes Benz sedan, coming from the opposite direction, collided with it.&nbsp; "The incident happened around&nbsp;8:45&nbsp;in the morning. The SBV cash van was travelling to Spar Supermarket when the attack occurred. Two of the suspects were injured during the shootout, but managed to flee," Fakude said. The grey Mercedes hit the SBV cash van as it was approaching a speed hump near the bridge in Cunningmore B, Mkhuhlu. The suspects got out of their car and started firing R5s at the van interior, while others climbed on top and bombed the van using explosives, Fakude said. A resident, who asked not to be identified, told a News24 correspondent that they had heard several gunshots had and rushed to see what had happened. "I was doing my house chores, when suddenly I heard gun shots being fired at a nearby bridge, and as I rushed to see, shootings were taking place between the thugs and the security of the cash van, and the police were alerted immediately."Woman in red gloves behind the wheelFakude said the shot security&nbsp;guards&nbsp;were not&nbsp;seriously injured, but that the driver&nbsp;was seriously injured by the explosives.&nbsp; The gang of about 15 fled towards Ximhungwe&nbsp;after residents started making a noise as they approached. The suspects were said to be travelling in a grey Mercedes Benz, a black BMW and a white Toyota Fortuner. The Fortuner&nbsp;was said to be driven by a&nbsp;woman wearing red gloves. The suspects made off with an undisclosed amount of cash.&nbsp;No arrests had been made.&nbsp;Anyone with information that may lead to the arrest of the suspects is urged to contact police on 013&nbsp;708 6901/082 469 2569.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.