Genevieve Quintal, News24 Julius Malema. (Jenni Evans, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     We speak to psychiatrist, Professor Michael Simpson, watch him give us a psychoanalysis of EFF leader Julius Malema.WATCH Pretoria - Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema
will graduate from the University of South Africa on Wednesday with a Bachelor
of Arts degree. Malema will attend the official graduation ceremony in
Pretoria, at the Unisa main campus, on Wednesday evening, EFF national
spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. He said Malema was graduating with a BA degree and a major
in political science. "We are dealing with a person who has shown
dedication." Malema had started studying for his diploma and then his degree
when he was still part of the ANC and facing disciplinary charges as ANC Youth
League leader. He missed the verdict on his disciplinary hearing in
November 2011 because he was writing exams. In April 2012, Malema was
eventually expelled from the ANC, after losing his appeal. The EFF was also turning 3-years-old this year, so during
the formation of the party, Malema was studying and writing exams. He was also studying while facing corruption charges in the
Polokwane High Court and during his SA Revenue Service court case. The corruption charges against Malema were struck off the
roll in August last year, while in June Sars withdrew its application to have
the provisional sequestration order against him made final. Elections, court, marriage In December 2014, the firebrand leader got married. "So it's EFF, elections, it's courts, it’s marriage...
the guy is really strong like that," said Ndlozi. "The completion of this BA qualification amidst all
other demands on him as a leader places him amongst the struggle heroes and
heroines who never compromised to lead our people in the liberation struggle
without academic qualifications." Ndlozi said Malema would continue his studies and had
already enrolled for his honours degree. In an interview with the SA
Press Association last year, Malema said the EFF was "emphatic about
the issues of education". Malema reportedly did not fare well in matric but this has
not stopped him from pursuing his tertiary studies. EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu attained his Masters
degree in 2014 in political studies at Wits University, while Ndlozi is a PhD
student in Political Sociology also at Wits, and treasurer general Magdalene
Moonsamy resigned as an MP to complete her articles in law. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  