Mpho Raborife, News24 (Crime in Cape Town via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Those who have been attempting to invade
land in areas in and around Dunoon do not know the facts around land ownership
in the area, an ANC councillor has told News24. Lubabalo Makaleni says the group of Dunoon residents, who
had attempted to invade pockets of land in and around Dunoon since Friday, were
residents who have not taken the time to attend any public meetings that could
have helped inform them that the land they wanted to occupy was already
privately owned by other parties. Dunoon residents attempted to set up structures on
private property belonging to Greenacres farm owners, the mayoral
committee member for the Safety and Security Directorate, JP Smith, said. After members of the SAPS and the City's Law Enforcement
officials arrived and removed structures off the land, a number of disgruntled
residents allegedly took to the N7 and attacked the Dunoon MyCity bus station
and throwing stones at motor vehicles. Four people were arrested on Saturday for public
violence. They were expected to appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court,
Constable Noloyiso Rwexana said. Makaleni has told News24 that residents had asked him for
permission to invade the land and when he did not give them what they wanted,
the residents took matters into their own hands. "They came to my house to toyi-toyi yesterday [Saturday],
they wanted to know if I can give them permission to occupy the pieces of land
identified. "Part of the pieces of land is privately owned, the
other one is Eskom's and the other piece belongs to the city of Cape
Town," Makaleni said. He said he then asked the crowd to move away from his
home and towards the community hall where he could respond to their questions. "They refused to come into the community hall...
they were in the yard of the community hall but they refused to come into the
building saying that I'm going to calm them down if they come inside." Addressing the
crowd Makaleni said after about two hours, he attempted to address
the crowd but that he had difficulty addressing the large crowd without a loud
speaker, which made many who were at the community hall disgruntled as they
could not hear him. He said he told those who could hear him, that those who
chose to invade those pockets of land were doing it at their own risk. "So they should not come to me as if I did not
inform them about the dangers and the ownership of the pockets of land. "They are not allowed to do that because there are
processes that we are following with regards to the informal settlements,
backyarders, and the development of the whole of Dunoon," Makaleni said. He said the main problem was that the residents did not
attend public meetings in the area. "They do not attend public meetings when they are
called, I have asked them about a couple of meetings including the
presentations done by the city of Cape Town about the IDP [Integrated
Development Plan] and the 2016/2017 budget. "There were only about 100 people who attended and
the rest of Dunoon stayed in their houses. That's what I was explaining to
them, that those meetings are so important because you have influence and you
get to ask questions." By Sunday night, Smith told News24 that the situation in
Dunoon was quiet and no further protests had taken place. Law enforcement would, however, continue to monitor the situation
on Monday, he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  