Amil Umraw, The Witness (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg - Amid ongoing probes by police and government, the Msunduzi Municipality has implemented steps to curb fraud and corruption within its units. During an executive committee meeting held on Thursday last week, city management elaborated on a progress report that outlined recommendations that different departments (or business units) should be actively facilitating. Only a day after the meeting was held, Pietermaritzburg detectives swooped on municipal offices in an intelligence-driven raid based on information that implicated prominent city officials in a R2 billion tenders scandal. Thursday’s report cited that all deputy municipal managers should continuously create awareness of the “anti-fraud and corruption campaigns” by facilitating regular presentations and formal training for employees within their units. The awareness campaigns hope to enhance the staff’s understanding of the different “manifestations” of fraud as well as prevention and detection techniques. In addition, deputy municipal managers are expected to conduct regular ethics campaigns. Without these, the municipality believes an environment conducive to corruption can be created. Lastly, city management recommended the strategic management committee fast-tracks disciplinary cases as this process is currently “slow”, which then, according to them, results in “management having no choice but to bring back suspended people without them being disciplined for their actions”. “This further promotes ill-discipline, demotivation to other employees and also encourages non-adherence to policies,” the recommendation read. DA executive committee member Bill Lambert said the city’s business units should have already been actively facilitating these recommendations to their employees. The recommendations were passed to full council.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  