Nqobile.MtoloPHOTO: nqobile mtolo Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson Nqobile Madonda said the municipality does not have enough resources to repair roads. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THERE seems to be a never-ending story to potholes on the roads of Pietermaritzburg. Years ago the Msunduzi Municipality rolled out its pothole repair pilot project, which cost more than R1 million, but potholes can be seen all around the city. Areas like France, parts of town and Imbali are just some of the many places that have become pothole heaven . Echo reporter spoke to driver Noma Mabaso of Edendale who said the municipality ignores potholes in the townships and focuses on repairing those in the CBD. Our tyres get damaged and every time we drive we have to swerve to miss the potholes. What if I cause an accident while trying to avoid the potholes? Will the municipality pay for the cost of damage, she asked. Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson Nqobile Madonda said there are not enough staff in the infrastructure department, resources and budget for road repairs. Just like with all other things in council, there aren t enough resources to go around, but we make do with what we have. Potholes are caused by a variety of factors including the ageing of the road surface , which is exacerbated by the increased number of vehicles on our roads, and so on. With that being said, the success of a pilot project is neither here nor there as this will not stop the ageing road infrastructure, and the unending challenges an aged road faces, it will only be a reactive approach to an already existing problem of potholes, said Madonda. She said in a good week, with no rain fall and all resources being available and sufficient, they repair approximately 200 square metres of potholes. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.