Pietermaritzburg - Around 100 pupils and nine teachers from Sibongumusa High School in Swayimane village received trauma counselling on Monday after the tragic drowning of three pupils over the weekend. The school closed early yesterday to allow pupils and teachers time to mourn. Department of Education official Thulasiswe Mvubu, who was at the school, said lessons will continue today. Mvubu was at the school with several officials from the department to seek clarity about the drowning of the three — Nomvula Zondi (16), Siyanda Buthelezi (16) and Zanele Vidima (14). It is understood that there are plans to take the families of the pupils to the scene of the drowning in Margate today where prayers and a traditional ceremony will be performed. The Witness visited the three families in Swayimane yesterday, where the parents said they have come to terms with the loss of their beloved children, however, they need a proper explanation of what transpired from the school. They described their children as individuals who took education very seriously and had plans for their careers. Nomvula’s father, Bongani Zondi, said he will always remember his daughter’s dreams that she shared with him whenever he visited her. “Whenever I came back home from Johannesburg to visit, she would share her dreams with me. One of the greatest dreams she shared with me recently was about her passion to become a doctor. “She wanted to study medicine after matric and open her own practice abroad. “My daughter was a strong young girl and a hard worker. I saw her strength when she lost her mother in July last year,” he said. Zondi said he brought new clothes for his daughter when he came home on Thursday night and she was looking forward to wearing them. The emergency services were still searching for Siyanda’s body yesterday. The boy’s family visited the scene hoping to find his body while the search-and-rescue team were searching. His father, Lucky Buthelezi, said the family remain positive that his son’s body will be found. He said Siyanda was a caring and humble person. “He would not complain when I asked him to do something for me. He was always happy and had a bright future,” said Buthelezi. “He loved cars. Sometimes we would take a drive together and I would allow him to drive. He also loved swimming; whenever we visited the beach he would be the first one to dive in the water,” he added. Zanele’s grandmother, Tholakele Vidima, described the 14-year-old as having many talents. Along with her dream of becoming a nurse, she also loved acting. “She amused us with the funny videos she made by filming herself,” said the 60-year-old grandmother. She also said her grandchild took her school work very seriously. 