Tammy Petersen, News24 Theodore Yach after his 100th crossing. (Supplied to News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Thirty-five years after completing his first
crossing from Cape Town to Robben Island, the feat of finally finishing his
100th journey is a memory he will always treasure, swimmer Theodore Yach said
on Tuesday. After entering 13-degree waters, the 58-year-old took on
the 10.4km route shortly before 08:00 from Three Anchor Bay. Faced with a strong current and icy surf, he completed
the crossing in three hours and 10 minutes. "I felt relieved when I finished," he told
News24 once he had warmed up with a shower, cup of tea and a sandwich. "It was a tough route, but seeing my wife and sons
waiting for me made me very happy." Yach, who trains five days a week - swimming 22km and
doing a day of weight training - said he remembered his maiden voyage to the
landmark very well. Among his boat crew in 1981 was then-president of the
Cape Long Distance Swimming Association, Peter Bales, who fulfilled the same
duty on Tuesday. Yach said his latest swim was the culmination of a
35-year goal. "With every stroke, I told myself to keep my head
under water." This was to keep him motivated by not focussing on how far
it was to land, he explained. "About 75% [of the feat] is focusing on the mental
aspect. I don't wear a wetsuit. I do this in a Speedo, so beating the cold is
critical." Yach's 100th crossing means he is now recognised in the
international open-water swimming hall of fame. Six other swimmers - Toni Enderli, Kieron Palframan, Ryan
Stramrood, Mark De Klerk, Buff van Westenbrugge and Dean Noik – also took part
in Tuesday's swim. Funds were raised through the swim for six charities: the
Children's Hospital Trust, Paper Video, NSRI Waterwise Project, Wynberg Boys'
School's Aquatic Centre, Highlands House and the Herzlia Foundation
Trust. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  