Kaveel Singh, News24 Matthew Legemaate and his mother Janet. (Kaveel Singh, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – A Durban teenager whose life is constantly hanging by
a thread has dedicated his time to organ donor awareness. Eighteen-year-old Matthew Legemaate, a Grade 11 pupil at the
Hillcrest High School, was born with a congenital heart defect, Tetralogy of
Fallot, and Pulmonary Atresia. The teen effectively has a three-chambered heart, extremely
small pulmonary arteries, and no path for blood flow directly from the heart.  - Health24: Heart Health The youngster had his first of five open heart surgeries
just 36 hours after birth, and has been on the transplant list for the last
five years. He is currently waiting for a heart and bi-lateral lung transplant.
 He is also on permanent oxygen and carries an oxygen
concentrator wherever he goes. A different point of view Matthew spoke to News24 on Wednesday, saying his perspective
on life is different to that of the average person. “I think my point of view is certainly its own thing. I’m
not someone who enjoys partying or things that the average teenager likes.
That’s not me. I am hoping to spread a message and hopefully inspire people to
become organ donors.” The youngster admits that his organ donor passion also gives
his family something else to focus on. “I would rather we focus ourselves on something productive
than worrying about me. I know it gives my family hope for me as well.” Matthew says his parents are his rock. “I like to call my family my army. My mum and dad are the
greatest, most supportive people in the world. No matter what troubles I have
they quickly help me resolve it.” He said he just wants people to see the good they can do. “If more people are aware of the Organ Donor Foundation and
the amount of help they can give, many lives can be saved.” Spreading the word Speaking to News24, Matthew’s mum Janet Legemaate, who is
also a volunteer at the Organ Donor Foundation, said promoting organ donation
was important to herself and Matthew. According to Janet, there are 4 300 people waiting for an
organ transplant in South Africa with less than 600 expected to receive a
transplant. Only 0.3% of our population are organ donors, she said. “It is sad to say, but KwaZulu-Natal has one of the smallest
organ donor contributions in the country despite having one of the highest
populations. This is obviously something close to our family and we want people
to know they can help save lives by doing this.” Janet said the family always ensures that medical facilities
are close at hand wherever they go. “We certainly are an extremely close family and do most
things together. We also purposefully plan memory making events or outings and
take every opportunity to make special memories.  “The support of our family and friends and our belief in God
and that there is a plan and a purpose for each of our lives certainly helps
us.” Living positively According to Janet, Matthew has always had a “positive
attitude”. “This illness has made him go far beyond his years. He is an
absolutely positive person who is so unique and beautiful. This kind of
situation can be difficult because you have moments when you feel very down and
other days that you feel positive. But Matthew is a light in our lives and he
keeps us going.” Janet said that Matthew was also an avid rugby supporter. “He goes about normal tasks in addition to advocating being
an organ donor. He goes to school as normal. The one thing he will never miss
is a Sharks game. He loves his rugby.” - If you are interested in assisting the Organ Donor
Foundation, visit: www.odf.org.za or contact their toll free number 0800226611
from 09:00 till 16:00 weekdays. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  