Kaveel Singh, News24The abandoned baby that was found in Tongaat, north of Durban. (Supplied, Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The Durban family who temporarily won custody of an abandoned baby girl wants the infant to become part of their home permanently.The baby was abandoned in Tongaat, north of Durban, near the home of prominent community activist and Emergency Control SA chairperson Ismail Mitha two weeks ago.- Read more: Love for abandoned babyMitha said his neighbour found the infant in a green bag, wrapped in a towel."There's a staircase near my home where people normally leave packets and alcohol bottles. Normally we don&rsquo;t pay attention to that section. But my neighbour spotted a green bag, which is not the norm," he told News24.Mitha said his family was "on top of the world" after gaining temporary custody."We love children and my six biological kids are so excited to have this beautiful baby in our home. We were told we would have custody of the child until March 29. This will basically give the police and Child Welfare time to track the family. We have the option to put in an application to keep the child, or it will go up for adoption to one of the families on that waiting list."If nobody claimed the child and she was put up for adoption, the Mithas would be first in line. Mitha said he and his wife Ayesha would "most certainly" be pursuing permanent custody.Ayesha told News24 that she would care for the girl, whom she had tentatively named Raqqna, which translates to blessings in English."I have to admit that at first I was a bit hesitant, not now knowing if I would be able to cope with another child. But now that we have her, it is such a blessing. It&rsquo;s as if she has just come into the house and everything is so different. People from all over are coming and bringing baby goods for her."We didn&rsquo;t even have to buy her anything. It is just pouring in. And I think we are really bonding with her. If we have to give her away it will be so hard."Ayesha said the baby was very well behaved."I am shocked because our kids used to cry all the time when we bathed them. But she never complains. She is such a good child. My kids are also so excited. They want to carry her all the time and are fussing to go to school because they want to spend time with her. They have started calling her their sister.&rdquo;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.