Jonathan Erasmus, The Witness ‘Chief Apostle Lerlin Jackquelene Williams Goss’ aka Lerlin Goss  (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pietermaritzburg - The law firm that employs a lawyer who claimed to represent alleged fake church leader Lerlin Goss, has apologised for his conduct. Surendra Singh, owner of Surendra Singh and Associates, said the incident — in which attorney Mlungisi Mbokazi called and threatened to sue The Witness and then claimed he could not remember making the phone call — was “embarrassing”. Mbokazi last week phoned the journalist who had exposed Goss’s activities claiming to represent her and threatened to “bring an application to sue the paper and sue you [the journalist] and take you to harassment court”. Mbokazi refused to divulge his full details before hanging up. Once The Witness ascertained who he was and contacted him again just 20 minutes later, he claimed he could not remember the earlier phone call and that while he knew “of Goss and her family”, he could not say whether he represented her or not. “I couldn’t have said that,” he said. Singh said Goss — who is also known as Lerlin Williams — is not a client nor do they have a file for her. “Whatever [Mbokazi] did, he did so without my knowledge or consent. My firm’s name has been dragged into this matter and it is embarrassing. I apologise. My office does not act for this woman; I don’t know this woman. I generally scrutinise matters that come to the office. I do not know how [Mbokazi] got involved with this woman,” he said. “I was in London when this happened. Mbokazi acted for her on a personal basis. His error is regretted and he has been issued a stern warning.” He stressed that the matter happened without his knowledge. Goss was exposed recently by The Witness for running an allegedly sham church known as Grace Divine Ministries. Having given herself the title “Chief Apostle”, Goss, whose ministry is still running at least in the digital sense, was found to have a fake congregation, fake church address, fake youth movement and fake leadership. Since then she has removed all the names of the fake leadership from her website and disabled their fake Facebook profiles, including removing the name and photo of one “leader”, which was the identity of a dead woman from the U.S. She has also changed the church’s contact details and address, the latter which still appears to be fake. Goss, who is currently facing a criminal charge for the theft of air-conditioners from a Pietermaritzburg business, confirmed recently she was the same Goss that The Witness had exposed as an alleged multiple fraudster in 2014.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  