Kaveel Singh, News24 (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Two KwaZulu-Natal high school principals say they will never forget the tragedy of what they witnessed at an accident scene where three pupils were killed en route to school early on Wednesday.Three teenagers were killed after a bakkie and a bus collided near the Mlalazi Bridge on the R66 near Eshowe while transporting pupils to school.Two of the pupils attended the Gcwalulwazi High School while the third attended the Ubambiswano High School. Moses Biyela, principal of Gcwalulwazi High School, said the mood at his school was sombre. &ldquo;I drove onto the scene myself. When you drive on your way to school and see such a bad accident &ndash; and then see your school uniform on straggled bodies, it is terrible. This is hard for everybody. The pupils that passed away at our school are in Grade 9 and 10. This has been hard for us to take.&rdquo; Nosipho Ndlovu, principal of Ubambiswano High School told News24 education district officials were at the school speaking to traumatised pupils. &ldquo;Pupils are quite upset at the moment. I went to the scene of the accident and was very shocked when I saw our pupil there. I am extremely traumatised by this incident. I cannot do anything. It was so bad. &ldquo;Our pupils are having a hard time. Some of the pupils are speculating that the bus was trying to overtake the van the pupils were in. But we do not know for sure.&rdquo;MEC for Education Peggy Nkonyeni said the department was &ldquo;very saddened by the passing away of these three learners&rdquo;. &ldquo;We pray that God gives the families of the deceased strength during this difficult period,&rdquo; she said.Police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said earlier that &ldquo;a bus collided with a light duty vehicle transporting school children&rdquo;.&ldquo;Three school children died on scene and several were taken to hospital. Charges of culpable homicide will be opened for investigation.&rdquo; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.