Candyce.Krishna PHOTO: supplied Sergeant Beautus Cele with the abandoned baby. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE Port Shepstone SAPS is dealing with a case of child abandonment after a baby was found in the bushes in Murchison recently. The baby was wrapped in a blanket with a bottle of water and a note, assumed to be left by the mother, next to her. “A man was walking past late in the evening when he heard the little girl cry. He went to a nearby house and asked for help. The police were then notified,” said police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Zandra Wiid. Wiid said SAPS do not receive many child abandonment cases, however it is still a concern. The Family, Child and Sexual Offences unit in Port Shepstone investigated two cases where a child was left in a house in Mkholombe and the community heard the child crying and went to assist. “The mother had apparently left to visit a place where she had a couple of drinks. The mother was later arrested and charged,” said Wiid. In the other case, also in Mkholombe, the child was placed into a toilet­ outside a house, but was rescued. “The mother was also charged. In both cases the children were taken away and put in the care of social workers,” she said. Sergeant Beautus Cele from Port Shepstone FCS is requesting anyone with information regarding the identity or the whereabouts of the mother of the baby found in Murchison, to contact him on 082 334 9682. An abandonment of a child case is being investigated. Sagree Naicker, manager of Port Shepstone Child Welfare said when a child becomes aware of his or her abandonment, counselling is offered. “However, we have seen children, despite working through their emotions, left with unresolved questions of why? Who are my parents? And was I not good enough?,” she said. “These questions often leave a void in the child’s life which sometimes can lead to behavioural issues later on,” added Naicker. During January and February, three child neglect cases, three uncontrollable children cases, four cases of families failing to maintain their children and four orphaned children cases were reported to the welfare.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  