Karabo Ngoepe, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria – Generations The Legacy actor Rapulana Seiphemo was drinking before a fatal accident on the N14, the Pretoria Magistrate's Court heard on Tuesday. Nathi Msiza, 26, appeared in court on crutches. He was applying for bail. Msiza's lawyer, Lesole Mokgatle, questioned the investigating officer, Constable Piet Shabalala, about the actor's state of being when the accident happened. Mokgatle submitted a magazine article claiming Seiphemo had been drinking. "Did you draw any blood from the victim? If I put it to you that the victim was drunk, what's your take?" Mokgatle asked. "No comment," Shabalala replied. "There is an article that says prior to the accident the victim was at Shisa Nyama [restaurant] consuming alcohol with Kenneth Nkosi," said Mokgatle. Magistrate Kiru Pillay warned against submitting a news article as evidence, but allowed it. She said the story should be taken as a report based on what people said. Media reports Shabalala said another article published in the Daily Sun told a different story. Three people were killed in the accident on the N14 on February 14. Msiza's co-accused, Tebogo Makunyane, 34, was one of them. The other two were Donovan van Zyl, 24, and Jacobus Coertze, 28, from Krugersdorp. They were travelling in a Toyota Corolla when Seiphemo's Audi crashed into them. According to Seiphemo's statement, he was waiting in his Audi A4 at a robot in Centurion when Msiza and Makunyane held him at gunpoint and ordered him to drive along the N14 to Mogale City. "One of them smashed the window of his vehicle and they both jumped in,” Shabalala read from Seiphemo's statement on Monday. Msiza, who was armed, sat in the back seat of the Audi and Makunyane in front. Slow down Seiphemo drove along the N1 and took the N14 off-ramp. He increased his speed, which made Msiza and Makunyane nervous and they told him to slow down. Seiphemo refused and Msiza jumped out of the moving car. Makunyane and Seiphemo began wrestling for control of the steering wheel, and collided with the Toyota Corolla. Shabalala said he visited Msiza in hospital to get his version of events, and that he lied. Msiza claimed a car knocked him down in Pretoria West and he was taken to Kalafong Hospital by ambulance. He then spoke to paramedics who treated Msiza at the scene of the accident. The ambulance driver told him they found Msiza at the scene of the crash. Shabalala then arrested Msiza for defeating the ends of justice and attempted hijacking. Judgment on the bail application would be handed down on March 17. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  