Boipelo.MereSEVERAL students received certificates for completing the basic computer skills programme. With the students are, on the left, Annalise Lourence and, on the right, Jessicah Seekoei (both local economic development practitioners from the Kolomela Mine). Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A TOTAL of 20 young people from Tsantsabane benefitted from the Kumba Iron Ore Youth and Skills Development Programme.These young people were awarded with certificates for basic computer skills after successfully completing the five day course conducted by Creative Minds from Kuruman in November 2015.This programme is an indication that Kumba Iron Ore, a business unit of Anglo American, is dedicated to ensuring that meaningful difference is brought to communities by creating a direct positive impact in the places people live and work. According to Nikki Wetzlar from Anglo American, it was established that the unemployed youth in Postmasburg required skills development intervention that will equip them with critical and relevant skills, making them employable and prepared for the labour market. Computer skills were identified as one of the skills that will enhance the employability of the youth. This intervention is aimed at having a positive impact on the community of Postmasburg that consists of the youth predominantly, said Wetzlar. Wetzlar stated that the Kolomela Mine also partners with other stakeholders to implement youth development programmes, such as learner s and driver s licence training through loveLife, tutorial classes for students who re-write matric and an introduction to engineering offered by Kolomela employees through the Employee Volunteerism Programme (EVP), which took place at the showground training facility. Kumba wants to ensure that the investments made in the community have a lasting impact on the host community in which they operate and want to improve their livelihoods. This is part of the sustainable economic development (SED) strategy that was aligned with the integrated development plan (IDP) review 2014- 15 of the Tsantsabane Local Municipality.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.