News24 Correspondent iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Police divers in Zimbabwe's best-known diamond
fields are searching for more victims of an accident that left at least three
illegal panners dead on Wednesday, the state Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation
reported. Up to 15 are feared to have been crushed to death by falling
rock in the Chiadzwa diamond fields of eastern Zimbabwe, but only three deaths have
been confirmed so far, ZBC announced in its main evening news bulletin.  At least one panner has been seriously injured. "It is feared that the number could rise to 15 and
police have since widened their search by incorporating the sub-aqua units to
search for others suspected to have drowned," ZBC said. Panners have flocked to the Chiadzwa fields (also known as
Marange) in the last few days following President Robert Mugabe's government's
shock announcement last week that mining firms in the area had to immediately
cease activities. One of the evicted companies, Diamond Mining Corporation
(DMC) complained that since the order, panners and looters had invaded their
concession. Wednesday's accident happened on the DMC concession, according to
ZBC. Government ministers say the affected firms were operating
without licences. It is also believed that they did not want to merge to form a
single entity, as ordered by the state.  Zimbabwe's mining minister Walter Chidakwa denied reports of
looting in Wednesday's official Herald newspaper. "There is no looting and systems are not collapsing in
Chiadzwa. There are people who are disappointed by the minister's move and
naturally they will find ways of denigrating the process," he was quoted
as saying. The private Newsday reported on Monday that the High Court
had provisionally ordered police in Chiadzwa to allow officials from one of the
companies, Mbada Diamonds to secure its assets in the fields.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  