Cape Town – A passenger on a FlySafair flight to
Johannesburg at the weekend said they were treated to a “super bumpy landing”
as a result of a damaged tyre. - Were you there? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. Ian Cameron said the take-off from Cape Town on Sunday
night was very bumpy, but he put it down to the surface of the tar. “Just when we were approaching for landing, we went very
low and then took off again. They said there is a problem with the landing
gear,” he told News24. Cameron, who heads community safety at AfriForum, said
passengers became worried. He saw the co-pilot walking down the aisle and
kneeling down to work on something on the floor. “We were circling and eventually the pilot said
everything seems to be okay, but we are going to attempt a landing. Half of the
people started laughing and the other half cried.” He said the landing was quite rough. A fire engine
escorted the plane along the runway for quite some time. “When we stopped, staff started handing out Easter eggs.
I thought it was an interesting way of saying sorry.” He was happy the airline responded to his complaint and
said it had promised to tender an official report on Tuesday. On its website, the airline said the plane landed safely
just before 10:00 and all passengers disembarked normally. FlySafair spokesperson Kirby Gordon told News24 on Monday
that one of the tyres on the right of the plane lost some tread, but did not
deflate. “It occurred during take-off, which is why we knew about
the state of the tyre for landing. At this stage it's uncertain what caused the
damage. It's not entirely uncommon; usually it's related to the runway surface.” He said Cape Town International Airport had been alerted. The airline extended its apologies to passengers.  @FlySafair #FA102 Scary experience, well handled by staff on board, concerning that the flight before ours had a problem too!Same plane?  @flysafair fire engines waiting as we land. Obviously poor maintenance will never fly again. pic.twitter.com/0bf9DnNoo3 