Mpho Raborife, News24 Nokubonga Angel Khoza (Supplied to News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Middelburg - Mpumalanga teenager Nokubonga Angel Khoza, who was stabbed to death while sleeping in her bed in Doornkop at the weekend, will be remembered as a passionate person who had dreams of being a doctor. The 17-year-old was described as a bright student who helped her classmates with difficult equations during mathematics class. At a memorial at her school, Mkhulu Combined School in Doornkop on Thursday, those who stood up to remember Khoza described her as someone who also liked being noticed. "She wanted to be noticed so, once in a while she would put on red lipstick whilst in her school uniform during breaks, and be scolded harshly by the principal," one of the mourners said. Arrest Khoza's body was discovered on Sunday morning by her older sister. She had been stabbed in her neck in her bedroom at their parents' home in Doornkop. Khoza and her two siblings were home alone at the weekend. Their parents were away attending a funeral. Middelburg police spokesperson Captain Khanyisile Zwane told News24 that Khoza's cousin, 23-year-old Vusi Skhosana, was a suspect. Skhosana had allegedly managed to enter the yard in the early hours of Sunday morning, without waking the dogs. At the time, Khoza and her older sister were sleeping in their respective bedrooms while their brother was sleeping in the outside room, Zwane said. Skhosana, who lived in Mhluzi, frequently visited his relatives in Doornkop over weekends. He has since been arrested for Khoza's murder and made a brief appearance at the Middelburg Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. The matter was postponed to March 10 for a formal bail application. In the meantime, Khoza's friends and family will remember the 17-year-old as a dedicated student with an angelic personality.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.