Naledi Shange, News24 Johannesburg &ndash; A second earth tremor has been felt in the eastern parts of Johannesburg, about two hours after the first tremor was felt across Johannesburg on Thursday evening.Residents from Germiston and Boksburg reported felling a second tremor hours after the first one.&nbsp; The tremors lasted a few seconds.- Did you feel the tremor?&nbsp;Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos.Some Boksburg residents believed the second tremor could have been a mine blast.A resident from as far as Parys, which is over 100km away from Johannesburg, also reported that they felt the tremor.Earlier it was reported that while the magnitude of the first tremor was not immediately clear, residents from as far afield as Lenasia, which is around 30kms from the Johannesburg CBD, reported that they too had felt the brief shake.A tremor was felt here in ext 3 Lenasia now. Everything just shook for a few seconds. Any idea as to what caused thismy floor just shook. was that an earth tremor, Joburg, or did one of you just get arrive? hint: say it was an earth tremor. ????Did anyone else just experience a slight tremor?Just felt a mild tremor! What's the magnitude?Just experienced what I think is a tremor... scaryWas that a tremor I just felt?Either that was a mini tremor or I'm more unsteady today than I originally thought??&mdash; Acid Raen (@raeesah_manack) March 24, 2016So Joburg had an earth tremor this evening and my mirror happened to fall off the wall and smash...coincidence?&mdash; Ian F (@Oxymoronic_Ian) March 24, 2016So Joburg had an earth tremor this evening and my mirror happened to fall off the wall and smash...coincidence?Earth tremor in boksburg.... thought I was being swallowed&mdash; TeBoGo Ntlwana (@Diced81) March 24, 2016Earth tremor in boksburg.... thought I was being swallowedFairly large #Tremor in Boksburg South at about 20h30.&mdash; Craig Webber (@c_w_a_w) March 24, 2016Fairly large #Tremor in Boksburg South at about 20h30.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.