Mandla Mahashe Mayor Patricia Deliile with local councillor Mzuvukile Nikelo during the dialogue. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille engaged with the people of Gugulethu and Mannenberg on Monday morning, as a means to hear what issues the residents wanted to raise with her.The meting was held at the Violence Prevention throught Urban Upgrading hall in NY 3a. In her opening remarks she said: We are here to hear what are the burning issues that you are facing in this community so that we can work towards addressing them, . The residents raised a string of issues, the most pertinent being crime and gang violence in both Manenberg and Gugulethu. Gugulethu is one of the top ten police stations when it comes to the high number of criminal cases reported. This means that the local SAPS is facing a high work load and this means that the community needs to come together and work with the police and law enforcement to fight crime, she said. Another burning issue was the lack of support for young children at local schools who were exposed to violence and poverty. In various schools in the Nyanga and Gugulethu areas, we have managed to recruit workers to deal with such issues and we will be working hard to make sure that there will be more workers going to schools in the Manenberg area, She said. De Lille also addressed the burning issue of lack of development at the Lotus informal settlement. We have been working hard in acquiring the land in Lotus as it is owned by Prasa (Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa). However, all our efforts to buy this land have not been fruitful. There are other developments in the area which the residents of this area can benefit from, she added. She also mentioned that there will be more than a thousand homes currently being built in the Gugulethu and Nyanga area. There other issues that were set to be discussed with local leadership such as the annual flooding in informal settlements were raised by Andile Mayishe and Mhlawuli Phikashe.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.