Nqobile.Mtolo Jacob Nyide from KwaZayeka points to the burst water pipe. PHOTO: nqobile mtolo   
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     THOUSANDS of litres of fresh water­ is still gushing out of a water pipe which burst in September 2015, apparently as a result of construction workers who had come to build a RDP house in KwaZayeka near Sweetwaters.  With uMgungundlovu water reserves running dry amid the drought, neither the Msunduzi Municipality or uMgungundlovu District Municipality is taking responsibility for fixing the burst, resulting in thousands of litres being wasted every second.  KwaZayeka resident Jacob Nyide had been proactive in reporting the pipe burst to authorities.  “The water has been gushing out since last September. I have made numerous requests to local authorities for this to be fixed, but nothing has been done.  “The national ministers will not travel all the way from Pretoria to address your concerns. People should be proactive in reporting community issues.  “The ward councillor is there to represent the government. Whenever I see a water leak I report it.” Nyide said the land which the unfinished RDP house is built on has become a temporary wetland.  When the Echo reporter visited the site, the brick walls of the RDP house were soaked symbolising that the soil below and surrounding the house is drenched in water. The water gauge next to the burst pipe was disconnected.  UMgungundlovu Municipality’s spokesperson Mbali Mwandla said the area is not in their jurisdiction. “This is not our area, KwaZayeka is in Ward 1 under Msunduzi,” she said.  A Msunduzi Municipality representative from the water department called Echo offices and said the matter had to be attended to by KZN Human Settlements.  Media liaison officer at the Office of the MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works Mbulelo Baloyi said the competence to repair the burst water pipe rests with either the uMgungundlovu District Municipality or the Msunduzi Municipality.  “In this instance the implementing agent, which is Vulindlela Development Association, can also engage the services of a private plumber at its own cost to repair the burst pipe.  “However, the municipality might have to be engaged to shut down the water supply while repairs are being affected. “From an engineering and environmental point of view, building on a wetland is prohibited as the structural integrity of the house being constructed can be compromised.  “Even if you were to build, you will have to incur additional costs as steel reinforcements will have to be installed as part of the foundation slab.  “From an environmental point of view, wetlands are protected and no construction is allowed on them hence geo-technical testing of the land on which any house is to be built is done in the preliminary stages of a housing project development,” said Baloyi.  Echo reporter contacted Nyide yesterday morning to find out if the matter had been attended to.  Nyide told the reporter that the status quo remains.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  