Genevieve Quintal, News24 Keith Khoza (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - ANC national communications manager Keith
Khoza, who resigned last week, says he is not lost to the organisation but will
help strengthen local government. "When you work for the ANC, you form part of the ANC
nationally that services either the organisation or the responsibilities that
the organisation is shouldering at that particular point in time," he told
News24 on Tuesday. The ANC used its members where the party thought they could
help meet its responsibilities. Khoza would take up a post in the Gauteng local government
department, led by ANC provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile. Last month, Premier David Makhura announced Mashatile would
return to the provincial Cabinet. 'No connection' Khoza said when Mashatile returned to the provincial government
he was tasked with assembling a team to work with him. Mashatile spoke to the ANC leadership and it was agreed that
Khoza would be released from his work at Luthuli House. Khoza said he did not leave the party's headquarters because
of any ill-feelings. A few days before the ANC announced Khoza's resignation, its
parliamentary chief whip Stone Sizani resigned to become South Africa’s
ambassador to Germany. Sizani and the ANC dismissed rumours that he was leaving
because he had been critical of how the Nkandla matter was handled. Last week,
he said the ANC parliamentary caucus had always wanted President Jacob Zuma to
repay some of the money spent on his private homestead. The ANC in Parliament
distanced itself from his remarks. Khoza said it was mere coincidence that he and Sizani left
at the same time. "There was no connection." Khoza had been part of the communications team at ANC
headquarters since 2009. Before that he worked under Mashatile in the Gauteng
finance department, was head of communications in the provincial housing
department, and an adviser to former North West Premier Popo Molefe. He had been CEO of the Gauteng Economic Development Agency
and head of the Gauteng Liquor Board. Strengthening local government "I've come
back," Khoza said about his new position. "I have an idea of how it operates, what are the issues
or what were the issues then. It's about continuing where we left off in terms
of the broad responsibilities of the department. "Remember, one of the key challenges the ANC is facing
is to strengthen local government and Paul is responsible for local government.
So we have to assist in terms of setting up systems, and make local government
more visible," he said. Khoza would still be handling communications for the
department and help out as an ANC volunteer. "I'm not lost to the ANC communications. I still will
form part of their meetings."  ANC THANKS CDE KEITH KHOZA FOR SERVICE TO THE MOVEMENT: https://t.co/HCwuu3Di3s @ANC_KKhoza pic.twitter.com/NmhB4NsjSq   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.