Jenna Etheridge, News24 Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor and SA First Forum member addresses Cape Town Press Club. (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The closing in on Treasury, embezzlement of public finances and abuse of state resources are evidence that the country is descending into an abyss, former African National Congress MP Vytjie Mentor said on Thursday. Mentor, a member of the apolitical SA First Forum (SAFF), said she lay awake at night sometimes and wondered why citizens were so “mute and passive” on these important matters. “Every single step is in contravention of the Constitution,” she told the Cape Town Press Club. The SAFF was about standing for constitutionalism and upholding the rule of law. “We are not defending [Finance Minister] Pravin Gordhan as a person. We are defending the sacrosanctity of the Treasury.” ‘Youth militia’ She said under the rule of law, state resources such as metro police should not be abused like they were when people tried to occupy ANC headquarters Luthuli House on Monday. “What amount of state resources have been used to defend my headquarters? It is not right.” WATCH the video: Hundreds of people - mostly members of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans’ Association, the ANC Youth League, Congress of South African Students, and the ANC Women’s League - descended on the Johannesburg city centre on Monday in defence of the ANC. Mentor said citizens should not be complacent when a “youth militia; a children’s army” was raised. They were wearing military fatigues, carrying weapons, and being called veterans. ”South Africans should not be silent,” she said. Mentor made headlines earlier this year when she revealed more of the alleged influence the Gupta family had over the government. Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas and Mentor claimed the Guptas offered them Cabinet positions. Mentor said Parliament defended wrongdoing and did not hold the executive to account. “I have personally called for the dissolution of Parliament. Not dissolved in a chaotic way that is going to leave a vacuum. We are not calling for means that are defiant of the rule of law or the Constitution.” She felt the Gauteng ANC’s suggestion of a national summit and broader convocation was the way to go. It was not right that around 700 000 ruling party members could be in charge of making decisions for the country. “There should be a way that everybody that is eligible to vote, can have a right to say that the president is not behaving like the Constitution expects him to behave.” She felt the electoral system should be revisited to change how public representatives were selected and how they were held accountable. “Our kids will have a shell of a country to inherit if you don’t insist today to demand that the Constitution is upheld, the rule of law is respected and upheld, and that leadership strives to be excellent at all times.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  