SystemPhoto: supplied Receiving their certificates (back from left) Dr Nakanjani Sibiya, Cllr Melody Sherry Mdunge, Sbo da Poet, Mandeni deputy mayor Phindile Sishi, and Dr Thobile Sithole. Front from left: are the computer certificate beneficiaries from Mandeni. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories SCORES of Mandeni residents flocked to Ndulinde Library to witness the handover of computer certificates to students last Wednesday. The handover was attended by well-known author Dr Nakanjani Sibiya, Dr Thobile Sithole from the Department of Higher Learning, Mxolisi Biyela from the Department of Social Development, Zanele Nkosi from the Department of Arts and Culture, Mandeni deputy mayor Phindile Sishi, Mandeni Municipal Speaker Makhosazana Zungu, ward councillors, delegates from the Sikhonyane Traditional Council, principals and teachers from local schools. Sishi, started by paying tribute to late Kwaito star Mduduzi Tshabalala famously known as Mandoza who passed away recently. For a person to prosper in life, education is the most fundamental equipment, she said. She asked young people to avoid falling pregnant while in their teens as this could be a hindrance to their personal growth. Sishi announced that the Mandeni Municipality has consulted with the MEC for Arts and Culture regarding the construction of public library in ward 16 at iSithebe. Speaking on behalf of the Department of Education, Dr Thobile Sithole said: Some of us had lost their lives, loved ones, joy and families fighting for liberty, but today the gates of learning are open for all, we can become anything we want, we can be teachers, doctors, nurses, lawyers only if we strive for the betterment of our lives and this can be achieved through education. She added that education is essential, however young people should be grounded and centred on religious teachings. Sithle urged the elderly to attend Adult Basic Education Training classes as this would empower them. From the Department of Social Development delegate, Mxolisi Biyela said that the department has initiated behavioural change programmes which allow the youth to have dialogue issues topical to them. We also have youth camps where youth hold discussions about social ills like rape, drug-abuse and unemployment, he said. He said that the department also started a youth academy which assists young people to obtain six months short skills courses. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.