Earl Haupt @Earlhaupt A Bangladeshi man has been reunited with his family following a traumatic kidnapping ordeal after the City of Cape Town s Metro Police arrested three suspects in Surrey Estate on Sunday 4 September. The 34-year-old man was apparently being held for an R800 000 ransom since Friday 2 September.According to JP Smith, the City s mayoral committee member for safety and security, the suspects aged 32, 34 and 39 were cornered by Metro Police officers after they received a tip-off on Sunday 4 September from a friend of the victim. The 34-year-old victim owns a spaza shop and lives in Delft, and Smith believes the kidnapping was an attempt at extortion.Metro Police officers managed to apprehend the suspects while also confiscating a replica firearm used in the kidnapping. The victim was found shackled and highly traumatised. The case was handed over to the Manenberg police. All three suspects were arrested and detained at the Manenberg police station, says Smith. The victim had to be hospitalised due to the trauma. Successful arrestsOther operations by Metro Police have yielded a number of successful arrests. Two suspects were arrested in Mitchell s Plain on Tuesday 6 September for possession of mandrax and tik.Also that Tuesday, officers in the Athlone area received a report of a robbery in which the victim s phone was stolen. The phone was traced to the Bokmakierie area and the victim managed to positively identify the suspect, who was then arrested. The phone was also recovered.Drug bustIn addition, high-visibility patrols in the Ocean View area paid off after a 20-year-old suspect was arrested for selling drugs at a local secondary school. Officers searched the suspect and found him in possession of two packets of tik and a lolly. The officers also arrested two suspects, aged 21 and 36, in Comet Road and Aries Way for being in possession of 54 dagga stoppe , 16 packets of tik, nine mandrax tablets and R839 in cash. They found 38 more dagga stoppe abandoned in Flamingo Road. On Monday 5 September, Metro Police officers attached to the gang and drug task team attended to a complaint at Kannabas Close in Kewtown. On reaching the site, they saw a group of young men smoking behind the flats. Upon further investigation, a 32-year-old suspect was found in possession of 36 dagga stoppe and one plastic bag of dagga. He was arrested and charged with illegal possession of dagga. Meanwhile, officers in the Hanover Park, Delft and Nyanga areas arrested four suspects between the ages of 18 and 29 for illegal drug possession during a stop-and-search operation. Confiscated items included five tik straws, one dagga stop , half a mandrax tablet, and one crushed mandrax tablet wrapped in a R10 note.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.