Wim Pretorius, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A behind-the-scenes video of the Springboks surprise #LoveRugby visit to Middelburg, as they took the Bok bus from Johannesburg to Nelspruit, was released online by SA Rugby on Tuesday. Watch. WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; Some members of the Springbok rugby team traded in their match jerseys for coaching jerseys on Wednesday as they took time to share some skills with possible future professional rugby players. Eben Etzebeth, Francois Louw, Jaco Kriel, Oupa Mohoje, Pieter-Steph du Toit and Tendai Mtawarira from the current Springboks squad, together with Sevens Olympic medalist Philip Snyman all treated the kids from three schools to an experience of a lifetime. Learners from Setsing Primary School, Mohlodi Primary School and Mohaung Primary School travelled to the impressive facilities of St Peter&rsquo;s College in Sandton where ASICS gave them the opportunity to showcase the talent of the youngsters by taking part in a TAG Rugby clinic.It was clear on the faces of the children that they stood in awe of their local national rugby team representatives and even had a chance to test their skill against some of the best in South Africa. "As a player who's experienced a lot in the game it's a privilege to give back to the community and help young players develop their skills. The commitment and hard work ASICS is putting into grassroots level rugby is crucial for the development of the game and getting children active and interested in sport," Snyman said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s good to see the children aiming for the gaps. You can&rsquo;t simply run over your opponent anymore,&rdquo; lock Pieter-Steph du Toit said.Etzebeth, who just returned to South Africa after playing his 50th test in Australia, said he was impressed by the youngsters and is hopeful that one or two of them may come through the rank in the future. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s nice to teach the young kids and see how they look up to us, so it&rsquo;s good to learn them some things.&rdquo; The Springboks take on Australia at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday and will be looking to rectify some mistakes they made during the last encounter between the two teams which saw South Africa take an early lead before falling short 23-17. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.