Jason Rohde in court (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Just before Jason Rohde's alleged mistress left for London on holiday on Thursday, detectives confiscated her electronic equipment,&nbsp;Netwerk24 reported.Jolene Alterskye, 35, is an estate agent at Sotheby&rsquo;s International Realty in Sea Point.Rohde, 47, is CEO of Geffen International Realty. He has been suspended.&nbsp; He has been charged with the murder of his wife, Susan, 45. She was found hanged in the bathroom of their hotel room at the Spier Wine Estate in Stellenbosch on July 24. The couple had been attending Sotheby&rsquo;s annual conference.Her death was initially thought to be a suicide, but a post mortem found foul play may have been involved.Alterskye&rsquo;s lawyer Leon van der Merwe said on Sunday that police had confiscated a computer, cellphone, and data storage equipment.He said as far as he knew, Alterskye was a witness for the State, but police had not treated her as such. &ldquo;They could have just asked us for the equipment. We would have handed it over,&rdquo; Van der Merwe said.He said Alterskye would be overseas for two weeks. Rohde was allegedly having an affair with Alterskye. Netwerk24 earlier reported that the relationship allegedly started in October 2015, shortly after Alterskye sold Rohde a flat on the Atlantic Seaboard.Susan Rohde reportedly found out about the affair early this year and confronted her husband. He allegedly promised to end it.According to Netwerk24&rsquo;s source, Susan Rohde met Alterskye on July 23, during the Sotheby&rsquo;s conference. Afterwards, the couple got into an argument. &nbsp;The next morning, Susan&rsquo;s body was found in the bathroom of their hotel room.Jason Rohde was arrested on August 23. He has to appear in the Stellenbosch Magistrate&rsquo;s Court again on January 27. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.