(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe "resumes work tomorrow" after returning home from Singapore where he had flown earlier this week for a medical review, his spokesperson says. Harare &ndash; The Zimbabwe's government has reportedly ordered that all primary and secondary school teachers reapply for their positions as it tries to get rid of ghost workers. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the ministry of Primary and Secondary Education urged all the teachers to submit their Curriculum Vitaes (CVs) before schools reopened on September 13. The teachers claimed that they were called by their school authorities about the recent requirements. Some also claimed that they were told that the new government requirements were aimed at addressing illicit government spending on ghost workers.However, the teachers feared that the move could also see thousands of teachers being axed from their positions, as the government was trying to lower its wage bill.&nbsp;"We were told to sign two new employment contract forms, one of which was said to be kept in our files at school and the other one to be taken to the ministry's head offices. But there was no clear explanation as to why this was being done, given the fact that we submitted our CVs when we got employment some years back," &nbsp;an unnamed teacher was quoted saying. &nbsp;This came as reports indicated that the Zimbabwean government had continuously failed to pay its workers on time in recent months.&nbsp;According to NewsDay, teachers, who make up the largest number of state employees, will only receive their August pay&nbsp;on September 2. Zimbabwe continued to function within the constraints of an ailing economy, with little to no backing from Western investors to cushion the blow when funds fail. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.