Karabo Ngoepe, News24Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga (Karabo Ngoepe, News24). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The ANC in Tshwane on Thursday accused mayor Solly Msimanga of misleading the public and travelling in blue light convoys, after promising that no city official would be allowed to do so. One of Msimanga&rsquo;s first public pronouncements after his election as mayor was the banning of blue lights on official vehicles, regional chairperson and former Tshwane mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa told reporters on Thursday.However, neither Msimanga nor his council could make such a decision as it was the provincial government&rsquo;s competency, he claimed.Ramokgopa said pictures had been circulating on social media showing Msimanga&rsquo;s official vehicle fitted with blue lights. Msimanga was still using a BMW, despite promising to switch to a cheaper one.Msimanga had failed to acknowledge that BMW South Africa donated the car to Ramokgopa when he was mayor, for him to use, at no cost, during his term. The gesture was intended as a show of good corporate citizenship by the vehicle manufacturer, as it was a significant contributor to the city&rsquo;s economy, Ramokgopa said.Msimanga announced shortly after his inauguration that officials would no longer use luxury cars. The city would look at switching to models like Hyundai or Toyota, to save costs. Ramokgopa argued this would cost more money.Msimanga's spokesperson&nbsp;Matthew Gerstner said he had stopped the use of blue light convoys in Tshwane for all officials. The vehicles were inherited from Ramokgopa &rsquo;s administration with the lights already installed.It would cost too much to remove them and Msimanga had banned their use anyway.&ldquo;When due for replacement, Mayor Msimanga will choose the most cost-effective option for the city, and will not seek a luxurious replacement,&rdquo; Gerstner said.When the new DA-led administration took office after the August 3 local government elections, they found a fleet of 10 luxury BMWs their predecessors had bought for themselves. They were handed to the city&rsquo;s metro police to form a new anti-hijack unit, Gerstner said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.