President Robert Mugabe. (AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories President Jacob Zuma has made a speech at the opening of a Bi-National Commission in Harare, where he avoided mentioning the #StateCaptureReport. New York - Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has once again blamed the Western countries for the ongoing economic difficulties facing his country.Speaking at the United Nations 71st general summit, Mugabe said that his country was struggling due to what he termed "spiteful sanctions against Zimbabwe".Zimbabwe has been reeling under economic hardships since 2002 when the United States and other Western countries imposed sanctions on the southern African nation.&nbsp;"My country is the victim of spiteful sanctions imposed by the US and other Western countries for some 16 years now. As a country, we are being collectively punished for exercising the one primordial principle enshrined in the UN Charter, that of sovereign independence," said the 92 year old leader.&nbsp;Watch the video below as Mugabe speaks.&nbsp;Mugabe also called upon the UN to speed up reforms of its Security Council in order to include the voice of developing nations.The veteran leader said that the UN should push for the full realisation of rights for people living under colonial and foreign occupation.However, social media did not respond positively to Mugabe's speech, as most Twitter users made fun of it. Some openly stated that they hoped this was the last speech that Mugabe gave at the UN.&nbsp;Social media reaction&nbsp; What to expect from President Mugabe speech at the UN Gen Assembly: Anything new is very unlikely. pic.twitter.com/Sho0ia7JiKThe only sanctions we need to be lifted Mr President are those imposed by urself and ur barbaric regime zanu pf! #MugabeUNspeech@zenzele No need to listen to Mugabe's @UN General Assembly speech. Same old rhetoric for years now. We sanctioned ourselves by looking EastThese days l get scared when l watch my Pres on such platforms.I feel like anything can go wrong any sec https://t.co/G1STIgt8Gg 1st 60secsMany hope today's speech by Robert Mugabe was his last at the UN. We're checking in with a @Carleton_U historian who grew up in Zimbabwe24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.