Rivalani Myambo, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Thohoyandou - The ANC in Limpopo has warned Vhembe municipality Mayor Florence Radzilani to follow instructions from the party and make changes to her executive committee.&nbsp;The mayor appointed her executive in council chambers on Friday.Warning that "factionalism was destroying the movement", ANC provincial secretary Knox Seabi gave Radzilani an ultimatum to appoint David Mutavhatsindi as head of the municipal technical services portfolio or else be subjected to a disciplinary hearing."You have acted in an inappropriate manner, you have defied the organisation and failed to follow instructions and the list given to you by the ANC; but changed it because of your hatred towards certain comrades over slate or factionalism, which is killing the organisation," Seabi charged."You must change that executive committee as a matter of urgency. Failure to do so and you will be subjected to disciplinary hearing," he said. Senior ANC politicians in Vhembe have said that Radzilani allegedly defied a list of executive council members given to her by the ANC party caucus held prior to the council, and had appointed her own executive council. Support for Mutavhatsindi This excluded Mutavhatsindi, who "has been at loggerheads with Radzilani" for the region's chair and mayorship positions since the December regional conference.They say Radzilani said she&nbsp;couldn't work with Mutavhatsindi because they were not on "the same slate or factional group"."The two are fighting over the chairperson position and executive mayorship. If the conference could sit tomorrow, I'm telling you, Mutavhatsindi is likely to win it. He has lots of support in Vhembe region," a source said.Mutavhatsindi was supposed to head the municipal technical services portfolio, but the mayor snubbed him and appointed Godfrey Mawela, who is ANC Youth League chairperson in the region, and believed to be on the same slate as Radzilani. The ANC in Limpopo has lost control of two key municipalities -&nbsp;Thabazimbi and Modimolle -&nbsp;to opposition parties due to factionalism, it is believed.During the ANC list conference, Mutavhatsindi got first place in Vhembe, paving the way to the executive mayorship, but the ANC in Limpopo apparently opted for Radzilani.Lies spread by 'political enemies' Although not in the top three, Radzilani was said to be preferred because Mutavhatsindi was suspected&nbsp;of being&nbsp;part of the group of senior politicians who were allegedly behind the recent unrest in Vuwani. Violent protests saw twenty-nine schools burned down, and damage to government infrastructure was estimated at R500m. The&nbsp;violent protests were in reaction to the&nbsp;Vuwani region being incorporated into a new, larger municipality with Malamulele.&nbsp; Mutavhatsindi said the allegations of his involvement in the unrest were lies being spread by his "political enemies". Radzilani also refused to comment, saying she was not an ANC spokesperson. Former executive mayor Tshitereke Mathibe heads community services, Rudzani Ludere heads finance, Mavhungu Lerule heads economic development, and Thina Mbedzi heads up infrastructure.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.