Jeff Wicks, News24 Thoshan Panday (City Press)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - Controversial Umhlanga businessman Thoshan Panday and police officer Colonel Navin Madhoe have been charged with corruption for allegedly attempting to bribe suspended KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen. In Booysen's own protracted court battles, he has insisted that he was side-lined for pursuing criminal prosecutions against Panday, who was described as "politically connected". READ: NPA lays charges against Durban businessman Thoshan Panday In the lead-up to the 2010 Soccer World Cup, Panday and his companies had raked in millions in procurement contracts, which had been facilitated by Madhoe and Captain Aswin Narainpershad, who worked in the police's Supply Chain Management Unit. According to a statement released by the National Prosecuting Authority on Friday, National Director of Public Prosecutions Advocate Shaun Abrahams had decided to institute the criminal prosecution against Madhoe and Panday. "The charges relate to an incident where former KwaZulu-Natal head of the Hawks, Genaral Johan Booysen, was offered in excess of R1m to backdate a report relating to the investigation about irregular procurement processes in respect of accommodation during the 2010 World Cup. "Colonel Madhoe wanted General Booyen to backdate the report in order for same to be regarded as inadmissible during subsequent litigation process," it reads. "The DPP KZN had previously declined to prosecute in this matter; however, the NDPP reviewed the matter in terms of Section 179 (5) (d) of the Constitution. "The accused and their legal representatives have been advised of the NDPP’s decision. The accused will appear in the Durban Regional Court on a date agreed upon by the DPP KZN and the legal representatives of the accused." Panday, Madhoe and Narainpershad have also been asked for representations by Abrahams relating to irregular procurement during the World Cup. The DPP in KwaZUlu-Natal had also declined to prosecute them in the past. "The NDPP has prescribed the 16th September 2016 as a deadline for the submission of the representations. A decision in respect of this matter will be taken after receipt of the said representations should the suspects avail themselves of this opportunity," it reads. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  