Lynn.HitchcockThe new KZN Salga chairperson, Mluleki Ndobe. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories MLULEKI Ndobe is the new KZN South African Local Government Association (Salga) chairperson.Hard working, his commitment to changing people s lives has finally paid off for the Harry Gwala District Municipality Mayor. Ndobe is also KZN provincial deputy ANC secretary, whose experience in local government affairs saw him elected at the KZN Salga provincial conference at Champagne Sport Resort in Drakensburg last week. Driven by his quest to improve conditions for the poor in his district, Ndobe said he was humbled to be given the opportunity to serve a sector of local government. I am humble and grateful to be trusted with this task, and as the Salga Provincial Executive Committee [PEC], we will continue to be the voice of local government. The event was attended by Executive mayors, officials from Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and KZN municipal managers. He said they will ensure that service delivery is fast-tracked to KZN communities. It is very important to tighten the capacity of our municipalities and I am very happy with the way municipalities perform in financial management and our audit outcomes in many municipalities, said Ndobe. He promised they will work hard to ensure there is stability in municipalities and will also ensure that municipalities follow the discipline code of conduct. Our communities need fast service delivery and it is unacceptable that after 22 years of democracy and 16 years of local government there are communities with no electricity, no clean water or decent shelter, said Ndobe.He said Salga PEC will lobby for councillors to be full time councillors and vows they will also lobby for better working conditions for municipal officials.Ubuhlebezwe Municipal Mayor Zamo Nxumalo said they are happy about the election of Ndobe and promise to give him all the support he needs.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.