Jeff Wicks, News24 (Free Images / Linked In) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - Two gunmen who broke into suspended High Court Judge Mabel Jansen's Pretoria home last week were after copies of court files, says a witness.News24 can reveal that the two forced open an exterior door and held Jansen's long-serving domestic worker at gunpoint, and demanded the files.Jansen was in Europe at the time. Her staff told her about the robbery.Abstergo Communications' Kirk Russell, speaking on Jansen's behalf, said the robbery occurred in the early hours of Friday morning.&ldquo;The domestic worker was held at gunpoint by two men who only spoke in English. With a gun to her head, she was asked where the court files are,&rdquo; he said.Russell said Jansen habitually backed up certain court files.&ldquo;Various other items of jewellery were also stolen. Her study was completely trashed and the men took time to remove books and papers from shelves and even pull sheets off the bed while looking for files,&rdquo; he said.Police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela said detectives were investigating the robbery."Our task team is working tirelessly to establish the motive behind the said attack, and possibly apprehend the suspects that were involved during the alleged incident," he said.Repeated attempts to contact Jansen in Scotland were unsuccessful at the time of publishing.Racism scandal Justice Minister Michael Masutha put Jansen on special leave in May, after comments she made to journalist Gillian Schutte were made public on Facebook.Earlier that month, Schutte posted excerpts of a year-old exchange she had had with Jansen on the social network.Jansen wrote of black people: &ldquo;In their culture a woman is there to pleasure them. Period. It is seen as an absolute right and a woman's consent is not required."I still have to meet a black girl who was not raped at about 12. I am dead serious.&rdquo;Jansen said she was referring to rape cases that she had presided over. She said the comments were taken out of context and were private. She had just lost her husband in a car accident.Jansen had taken charge of high-profile cases, including the dispute between the South African Revenue Service and EFF leader Julius Malema.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.