Wim Pretorius, News24 Pastor Steven Anderson (Screengrab) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories News24 spoke to GaySA Radio's attorney Coenraad Kukkuk on Tuesday after their victory over homophobic pastor Steven Anderson, after Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba denied the pastor entry into South Africa. Watch. WATCH Johannesburg – The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) has welcomed the decision by Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba to put a stop to anti-gay American pastor Steven Anderson's attempts to visit South Africa. The controversial pastor was banned from entering the country following petitions by LGBTI groups to Gigaba to block him from entering South Africa later in September. The commission said it had received a lot of complaints in July from people concerned about Anderson's pending visit to South Africa. "Complainants expressed concerns about the visit, given his homophobic pronouncements about members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community as well as members of the Jewish and Muslim communities," the commission said in a statement. Earlier Anderson called South Africa a "den of iniquity" and a "demonic stronghold" in response to those who want him banned from visiting the country. "I literally believe that South Africa is some kind of a demonic stronghold," he said in a Sunday sermon titled There are many adversaries. The sermon was posted on YouTube. The SAHRC said the US pastor's offensive statements had an impact across all social media platforms. It expressed its concern that Anderson was undermining the Equality Act even though he had not yet entered the country. "Following on these discussions, the commission is heartened that the Department of Home Affairs has taken proactive steps to protect the rights of persons in our country and to advance the commitments to respect for human rights recorded in our bill of rights." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  