Lizeka Tandwa, News24Jacques Steenkamp (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the "SABC 8" journalists who resigned from the public broadcaster on Monday, Jacques Steenkamp, has been told to go without serving out his notice period, he announced on Twitter."The #SABC has just 'released me with immediate effect' and will pay me out until November 4 which would've been my last day. #SABC8," Steenkamp tweeted on Wednesday.&nbsp;On his Facebook page, Steenkamp said the SABC&rsquo;s human resources department had refused to tell him the reason for its decision. A "reliable source" had,&nbsp;however, told him it was due to the group&rsquo;s supplementary affidavits that were filed in the Constitutional Court on Monday.&nbsp;Steenkamp&rsquo;s wife Nadia told News24 on Monday that he had accepted a job in Auckland, New Zealand. He would be a news director at the Sunday Star Times from November 21."Even after court, nothing has really changed for him, but he is still intent on fighting censorship at the SABC," Nadia said. "He is not emigrating. Nothing stops him from coming back to South Africa. He loved the SABC until things started changing," she said. Nadia said Steenkamp&nbsp;had written&nbsp;in his resignation letter that he was leaving because he was unhappy. When he saw Communications Minister Faith Muthambi and SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng's report to Parliament that he and seven of his colleagues had acted unethically, he made up his mind to leave.The SABC came in for criticism in July when it fired Foeta Krige, Suna Venter, Krivani Pillay, Thandeka Gqubule, Busisiwe Ntuli, Lukhanyo Calata, Vuyo Mvoko and Steenkamp for speaking out against the broadcaster's policy to not show footage of violent protests.&lrm;Seven were reinstated when the Labour Court set aside the dismissal on July 26. Mvoko, who was employed as a freelancer, lost his case against the SABC.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.