Nokuthula.KhanyilePHOTO: supplied Anesh Orthar, Thobekile Maphumulo (uMgungundlovu District Municipality mayor) and Roshida Orthaw at the Orthar's home in Chatsworth yesterday. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories NEWLY elected mayor of Umgungundlovu District Municipality Thobekile Maphumulo, and the Umgungundlovu District Municipality Municipal Manager, Sibusiso Khuzwayo visited to an athlete whose Mandela Day Marathon race nearly ended in a tragedy.Maphumulo and Khuzwayo visited Anesh Owthar in his Chatsworth home after he suffered a near-fatal heart attack moments after finishing his first 42.2km Nelson Mandela Day marathon on 28 August.With 25 Comrade Marathons to his name Owthar, who finished in 5:34, said it was very challenging. The weather was hot. I normally finish 42km races without having to walk, but this time I had to. He said while relaxing with friends and other Mandela Day Marathon runners after his race he developed severe chest pains. My running mates from Fields Hill Water Athletics Club quickly alerted paramedics and I was rushed to St Anne s Hospital. He said on arrival at the St Anne s trauma unit, doctors suspected a heart attack and his wife was notified and had to drive to Pietermaritzburg from Chatsworth. I feel indebted to my fellow runners who even offered to pay for my entry into hospital. Doctors discovered a blood clot in my heart, which caused a massive heart attack. He told Maphumulo he was feeling 99% better. The mayor presented him with an array of Mandela Day Marathon memorabilia and advised that next year he should opt for the 10km walk. You shouldn t run the 42.2km race again. I will walk the 10km race with you and your family next year, Maphumulo told Owthar.Owthar said he was honoured to have the mayor and the MM visit his home. It just shows their compassion, which embodies the spirit of the race and that of Nelson Mandela . - Supplied.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.