Manenberg police have uncovered a scam which has seen a Grassy Park man become a victim of armed robbery on Friday 9 September. It is alleged that the 23-year-old victim saw a Facebook post of someone selling a Golf for R25 000. The case involves the Grassy Park man who responded to the ad and then made contact with the potential seller. They agreed to meet at an address in Greatfish Road, says Manenberg police spokespersonCaptain Ian Bennett. It is alleged that when the victim arrived in Greatfish Road, he could not find the address and was directed to drive to a house further down the road. “When he (and two friends) got to the address, two men got into the car. One man pulled out a firearm and threatened the 23-year-old and his two college friends. The suspects took out their cellphones and R80 cash.” The total value of the robbery is believed to be R2500. Bennett reiterated that the Facebook post seemed to be legitimate with pictures and description of the car. Bennett says victims were forced by the suspects continue to drive around in Manenberg. They then dropped the suspects off in Jordan Road. “These young people were lucky as so many bad things could have happened to them. The police are appealing to the community to, when seeing an advert on social media, make enquiries to establish and verify the legitimacy of the sale. Easily, we could have had another serious crime being committed. Beware, be safe, be smart and report crime. Do not become a victim,” states Manenberg police station commander Colonel Hendrie Hugo. Bennet adds: “We have many incidents where the media has highlighted the dangers of responding to social media adverts, but still the community and young people become vulnerable to this type of post exposing them to great danger. According to Bennett, Detective Constable Joshua Williams received the case and he immediately made enquiries. “Detective Constable Williams never gave up as the case seemed hopeless. He followed up information which led to the naming of two men that were possibly involved in selling cars. The community fears the gangs in the area which made it difficult to get any witnesses to come forward with information due to the fear of gang retaliation,” states Bennett. As a result, a 27-year-old man was taken in for questioning on Saturday 10 September and in the early hours of Monday 12 September, Williams finally put the pieces together and made a second arrest. The two men, aged 27 and 53, were arrested and charged with robbery with a firearm. They will appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s court today (Tuesday 20 September) on a charge of armed robbery.   