Jenna Etheridge, News24Confrontation over protest action. (News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A group of black solidarity activists, some UCT students, interrupted the fees commission in Cape Town on Tuesday over their suspensions during #Feesmustfall related protests.The group confronted UCT vice-chancellor Max Price and would not let him leave without giving answers on why five students were interdicted and &ldquo;targeted&rdquo;.Student activist Masixole Mlandu, who was one of the five suspended after the Shackville protests in February, asked Price why he dared to show up.The group of around 40 circled around Price and stopped him from leaving a number of times. At one point, they took his laptop away. It was later given back.Price said they would not tolerate violent behaviour. He said the disciplinary measures were not a comment on the fees issue but on the burning of buses, trespassing and violence.Own fees commissionHe urged the five to appear before the disciplinary committee so that it could make a finding.Mlandu asked him to retract their suspensions in &ldquo;good faith&rdquo;.Public order police then stormed the Centre For the Book where the commission is taking place, and asked the group to leave.Some push and shove action resulted but eventually the police backed off.The students then took over the venue to hold their own fees commission.Protest banner. (News24)Two men held up a poster at the front which stated &ldquo;Black solidarity #action&rdquo;.Mlandu, referring to himself as a judge, said it was not just about the struggle for free education but one for black liberation.&ldquo;We are here to pave the way on how to move forward. The majority of students are black and poor. If you are white, you are rich. If you are rich, you are white.&rdquo;They held their own commission, asking students to share their experiences.Many shared their distrust in traditional commissions and criticised the money spent on flights and fancy hotels for commissioners.Around 30 workers, said to be from Stellenbosch University, entered the venue to listen to proceedings.WATCH the video:24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.