Bridget.SiebertPHOTO: file Mandoza. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories SOUTH African Kwaito legend Mandoza may have performed on the biggest stages in the country, but it was his performances in Pietermaritzburg that locals said they will never forget.Mandoza - real name Mduduzi Edmund Tshabalala - delivered one of his most unforgettable and enthralling performances at the Love to Live 2015 event held at the Protea Grounds in Northdale. Event organiser, Dr Dan Moodley, said Mandoza, who became famous after his 2001 hit Nkalakatha, was invited to perform with a host of South African soapie stars at Love to Live s 15th anniversary. He was the highlight of the event. He enthralled the audience and was among the most easy-to-please celebrities I have come across. The children were also blown away by his performance, Moodley said. He said one of the most heartwarming moments was watching Mandoza mingle with the children and sign autographs. His death is a big loss to South Africa and the music industry. He did a wonderful job when it came to social cohesion, Moodley added. Collaborative Entertainment director Sash Preamchand said he was blessed to have worked with Mandoza on a number of occasions. The first was during an appearance on Yo-TV on SABC 1 in 2012. In 2013 Preamchand again worked alongside Mandoza during the filming of his reality show Rolling with Mandoza. I did some of his public relations and booked a few events for him, one of which was at Sticky Fingers nightclub here in Pietermaritzburg, he said. Describing him as one of the coolest guys ever , Preamchand said Mandoza taught him one of life s biggest lessons. We were doing an event in Durban and were sitting at the hotel when Mandoza told me there was only one thing that kept him focused and that was his family. He told me family first, business second, he said. Preamchand described the Kwaito star as humble and a real-life rock star . He was a no-nonsense guy when it came to his brand and his image, but at the same time he was caring and not as gangster as people thought. He was a church-going man who had redeemed himself, Preamchand said. Another local production company, KIT Productions, also shared the stage with Mandoza. Kerooshan Pather said they were privileged to perform alongside the Kwaito star at the Love to Live event. He was so humble and friendly, and mingled with everyone, Pather said.The Kwaito star lost his battle with brain cancer on Sunday morning. He was 38. It was the singer s hit Nkalakatha that made him a household name in South Africa. The track became one of the most recognised songs on radio in the country and won the Song of the Year category at the South African Music Awards in 2001.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.