Jeanette Chabalala, News24A screengrab showing Vicki Momberg speaking on her phone. (Screengrab, eNCA) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Angry Howell Road residents in Sydenham, Durban, pushed and verbally abused a managing agent for the area on Tuesday, accusing him of being a racist after eviction notices were allegedly served and tenants had their belongings removed. Watch. WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; An estate agent who was filmed making a racist tirade against black police officers is expected to appear in the Randburg District Court on Tuesday.Vicki Momberg is facing a charge of crimen injuria. When she became the victim of a smash-and-grab robbery in Northriding, Johannesburg, in February, Momberg refused help from a black police officer and was filmed complaining about the &ldquo;calibre of blacks&rdquo; in the city.&ldquo;This happens all the time, all the time. The kaffirs here in Joburg are terrible. I'm so sick of it,&rdquo; she is heard shouting in a video broadcast by eNCA.A white and a black police officer arrive on the scene. The white officer objects to her comments and warns her to stop.&ldquo;The calibre of blacks in this town vary from the calibre of blacks in Durban. They're opinionated, they're arrogant, and they're just plain and simple useless. I am happy for a white person to assist me, or a coloured person, or an Indian person. I do not want a black person to assist me,&rdquo; she shouts.&ldquo;Let me tell you something. This is the type of police force we have got. We got a low calibre people working. If I see a black person, I will drive them over. If I have a gun, I will shoot everyone,&rdquo; she tells the officer before driving off.One of the officers approached the SA Human Rights Commission.She is the second estate agent to face racism-related charges this year.In June, the Umzinto Equality Court fined Penny Sparrow R150 000 for calling black beachgoers celebrating New Year's Day in Durban monkeys.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.