Nokuthula.KhanyilePHOTO: supplied The siblings, Msizi (left) and Abongile Mtshizana, who were killed in the hit-and-run. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories ATRIP to church turned into a tragedy for a KwaPata father last Sunday after his two sons were killed in a hit- and-run accident. Nicolas Mtshizana, who survived the ordeal, said he is struggling to cope with the death of his two youngest sons, three-year-old Msizi and eight-year-old Abongile. Speaking to the Maritzburg Echo during a memorial service at Sibongamandla Primary School last Thursday where Abongile was doing his Grade 1, Mtshizana said his family has been torn apart. We were on our way to church as usual around 9am when a Nissan bakkie came speeding down by the KwaMncwabe tuck shop and swerved onto the wrong side of the road and crashed into us. I remember trying to shout for my boys to get out of the way, but it was too late, he said.Mtshizana said he can t remember what happened thereafter as he was knocked unconscious. When I regained consciousness in hospital I remembered I was with my children and I asked my brother where they were and he just said they were in the children s ward and that I shouldn t worry. Mtshizana, who was released from hospital that same day said, it was only when he got home that his family broke the news to him that his sons had died. I am very sad but I am trying to be strong for my family as a father. He said Abongile was a very respectful child and with a bright future. He loved his school work - he loved to draw and would always ask his mother to help him with spelling. He said the youngest, Msizi, was a happy child who was always smiling and loved to play. Their mother is devastated, I also feel as though I failed them, but we are both trying to be strong for our family. Abongile s class teacher Sbahle Khumalo said he was a very clever boy. He was a respectful boy, but very playful. Whenever I scolded him in class he was always quick to apologise and that showed me that he came from a good home. We are going to miss him, she said. Mtshizana said he was not sure if the police had arrested anyone yet. I don t know if anyone has been arrested yet, but I heard the driver handed himself over to police. Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela said the driver is yet to come forward. We appeal to anyone with information that may lead to the arrest of the driver to please come forward, he said. Abongile and Msizi were laid to rest on Saturday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.