Tshidi Madia, News24Herman Mashaba (City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba is correct in blaming land invasions in the region on the ANC, says 64-year-old Orange Farm resident Olga Lutu. "They were loud hailing for all the homeless in the area to come and invade the land, but that land is zoned off for community development purposes; one is to build a community college, another a pre-school. There is also land there to help with food security issues," she said. Mashaba has had his hands full since coming into office last month. Most recently he has had to fight against illegal land occupation around some parts of the city. He has blamed the ANC for the invasions and warned communities against allowing their vulnerabilities to be taken advantage of for political reasons. Lutu, who took part in a media briefing held by Mashaba on the issue on Friday morning, said she witnessed the attempts to occupy land and also the police's swift action to bring them to an end. "JMPD came and controlled the situation, people were there and their building material got confiscated. JMPD managed to stop them." Lutu, who claims to be a faithful ANC supporter who even campaigned for the political party in the lead up to the 2016 local government elections, said she warned the youths in her township against the land occupations. 'Last kick of a dying horse' "I told them this is not the way to do things; that those doing these things are actually anti-ANC, they said they would listen to me."Lutu said she believes the young ANC members were attempting to destabilise the DA in the region. "I told them it's the last kicks of a dying horse, it kicks then it dies. It's not how they should approach this, there is another way, we can still make it in the next elections but they must change their attitude," she said. Lutu said the actions of the young ANC members did not come as a surprise. "The elders warned us about this; that there will be some in the party who deviate from the ANC's green book and the resolutions from the Mogorogoro conference in 1969, they said we must dominate those people in the movement." She has also expressed frustration with the ANC for its failing to recognise the community of Orange Farm, saying the party has never selected leaders from that community. The ANC, in noting the claims made by Lutu and the DA, said land invasions were a challenge even when it was in power in the city and dismissed allegations that it was behind the illegal land occupations.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.