Paul Herman, News24(Picture: YouTube) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A point of order descended into a shouting match in Parliament after EFF leader Julius Malema insisted on referring to South African Airways (SAA) chairperson Dudu Myeni as "Dudu Myeni Zuma". MPs argued in the National Assembly on Tuesday over Malema's continued reference to "Myeni Zuma" during a debate on the embattled airline carrier. "He has to stop or withdraw," Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini said. Malema ignored her objections along with those of another MP who'd risen on a point of order, saying there was no rule in the Constitution that prevented him from referring to Myeni as "Myeni Zuma". &nbsp; Minister of Small Business Development Lindiwe Zulu also took exception to the references to "Myeni Zuma"."Are you aware that Dudu Myeni is a married woman?" Zulu said.'Blowing hot air' Malema bit back accusing Zulu of pretending to be a feminist."You are blowing hot air. You want to pretend that you are a feminist when you are not," he told Zulu to applause from EFF supporters in the gallery. "Stop using your position of power to mascarade as a feminist, because you are not. "Stop defending wrong things." "Under Dudu Myeni Zuma the SAA has demonstrated beyond doubt that they do not understand the airline industry," he continued. "Despite all these realities the South African government still went ahead and reappointed Dudu Myeni Zuma as chairperson of SAA. "All of you who defend Dudu Myeni Zuma must know that you're being used for personal agendas of the president." Myeni 'not an MP' DA chief whip John Steenhuisen cited section 59 of the Constitution, saying MPs had privilege and freedom of speech in the House, and the condemnation of inappropriate language only applied when referring to fellow MPs."Dudu Myeni is not a member of this House," Steenhuisen said. Dlamini and Zulu could be seen constantly heckling Malema as he spoke, and continued well after he sat down. House chairperson Mmatlala Boroto reprimanded Malema and said she would consider the fact that his speech went overtime in her ruling for the record. She also said Myeni had right of reply as a member of the public mentioned in Parliament. Malema switched topics and had the last word. "This man is the only honourable man you have in the country," he said pointing to Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan before leaving the podium to applause. Gordhan sat expressionless as Malema spoke.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.