Karabo Ngoepe, News24ANC Tshwane Chairperson Kgosientso Ramokgopa (Karabo Ngoepe/News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria &ndash; The Tshwane ANC will ask the Public Protector to investigate complaints of corruption and maladministration against DA mayor Solly Msimanga, the party said on Thursday.The party alleged that the DA-led council made several senior appointments irregularly, ANC chairperson and former Tshwane mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa told reporters.Ramokgopa said once they had laid their complaint on Friday, they would turn to the courts to seek an urgent interdict to stop the appointments.The ANC&rsquo;s gripe related to the appointments of councillor Gert Pretorius as a "chair of chairs," Marietha Aucamp as chief of staff, and Tiyiselani Babane as strategic executive in the office of the speaker.Ramokgopa said Aucamp was sworn in as a councillor at the inaugural council meeting, and was due to have become an MMC."It has since transpired that she was in fact summarily appointed as chief of staff. This appointment did not follow any recruitment process as provided for in the city," he said.Msimanga's spokesperson Matthew Gerstner dismissed the ANC&rsquo;s claims as a soliloquy of rumours and untruths. All the appointments were above board and legitimate. He maintained that no permanent appointments had yet been made. Any acting appointments were an interim measure until the posts could be filled permanently.At a council meeting on Tuesday, Msimanga explained that he had appointed Aucamp because the incumbent chief of staff was going on maternity leave in four days.&ldquo;There is a provision that says if there is an emergency you can appoint someone," he said.Msimanga said the rules allowed him to appoint someone on a temporary basis while looking for a permanent chief of staff, which had happened in Aucamp&rsquo;s case.Violence broke out in the council chamber due to the ANC's unhappiness about the matter on Wednesday. Councillors slapped, punched and hurled objects at one another.&nbsp;Gerstner disputed the claims that Msimanga elected a &ldquo;very white&rdquo; mayoral committee, but changed it when there was an outcry from the ANC and public. It was &ldquo;the most diverse&rdquo; the capital city had had. It was announced on August 26 and had not changed. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.