Karabo Ngoepe, News24Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. (AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan represents the interests of white capital, Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama said on Friday."Pravin represents the faction that represents the white interests within the DA. That is why all of them want privatisation. This whole thing about the Treasury attacking state-owned institutions is about privatisation," he said in Pretoria during a debate about coalition politics.Other speakers included Women&rsquo;s Justice Foundation founder Magdalene Moonsamy and DA MP Stevens Mokgalapa. The debate was hosted by the South African Association of Public Administration and Management's Gauteng chapter.Mngxitama said the DA wanted to take state entities and hand them to whites.'Attack'He said, "this thing called Futuregrowth" was part of an "attack" by the party and white capital. The asset manager announced on Wednesday that it was suspending additional loans to major South African state-owned enterprises - including Eskom, Transnet, and Sanral - due to corporate governance concerns.He spoke about corruption, but made no mention of President Jacob Zuma and his Nkandla homestead, or his looming arms deal graft charges.He said white people stole billions of rands every day.Gordhan and former finance minister Trevor Manuel wanted to "collapse" SOEs to allow whites to buy and privatise them, Mngxitama insisted."Pravin represents the interests of white capital, London, of Western hegemony and imperialism."Zuma, who you all don&rsquo;t like, is standing with Brics. If you don&rsquo;t know in the world there is a war, the West and the rest of us."Mngxitama said South Africans had to be careful about jumping on the bandwagon of calling for Zuma to step down. This was a narrative created by the West, which wanted to see the country fail."They have finished Brazil. This thing of 'Zuma must go' comes from London."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.