David Manual as gang boss Gums in Noem my Skollie. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Gugulethu actor David Manual is currently gracing the big screen in the highly-anticipated local film, Noem my Skollie. Released last week, Noem My Skollie tells the true story of four teenagers, AB (Austin Rose) and his three best friends Gimba (Ethan Patton), Gif (Joshua Vraagom) and Shorty (Valentino de Klerk) who grow up on the impoverished ganglands of Cape Flats in the 1960s. Despite their best attempts to avoid a life of crime, the four end up in prison, which is where AB learns to use his gift of storytelling to raise his status. David, a former Pollsmoor prison inmate himself, plays the gang boss Gums, which according to all reviews, he does terrifyingly well. David was also involved in the production The Outsiders which saw inmates telling their stories on stage at the Artscape Theatre in 2014. He has been in and out of Pollsmoor throughout his life and while he was on parole when Noem My Skollie was being filmed, he was in the audience as an awaiting trial inmate when the movie had its premiere screening at the prison in August. David had reportedly been picked up for petty crime, which he denied being involved in. The charges have since been dropped and he now able to enjoy his success as a free man. Noem My Skollie delivers on the themes of friendship, betrayal, forgiveness, acceptance, the desire for a better life, hope and love. The title of the film plays on the old adage that one should not judge a book by its cover and promotes the view that everyone has a gift even if sometimes hard to find and even if that gift comes at a price. John W. Fredericks, left school as a teenager and spent many years of his youth in jail and yet he has managed in his sixties to write a major world-class screenplay. The entire script is written in Afrikaans but the film is presented with English sub-titles. The cast also comprises, among others, Christian Bennett, Gershwin Mias, Oscar Peterson, Abdu Adams, Peter Butler, Charlton George, Jill Levenberg, Denise Newman, Sandi Schultz, Andre Roothman, Paul du Toit and Irshaad Ally. Noem my Skollie is currently on screen at Ster-Kinekor and Nu Metro cinemas. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.