Karabo Ngoepe, News24A photo of Hope Zinde at her memorial service (Karabo Ngoepe, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The case against the son of former SABC board member Hope Zinde was postponed in the Brits Magistrate's Court on Friday prompting the defence team to accuse the State of delay tactics.Mark Warona Zinde was expected to apply for bail in the case involving the murder of his mother but that did not happen as the investigating officer only arrived at court after lunch."With all due respect, I don't know if I should be angry or laugh about it," Zinde's lawyer Francois Joubert said when the State asked for a postponement."My client has been in custody for more than three months, he has been waiting for his day in court."Zinde walked into the courtroom wearing a blue and grey tracksuit and as soon as he stood in the dock, prosecutor Onnah Ndlovu asked the court for a postponement.She explained that the prosecution only knew about the case in the morning and the investigating officer was not available. The matter had previously been heard at the regional court."We became aware of this matter this morning. The investigating officer just arrived now. He was away on other duties in Mokopane and Burgersfort. The State is in a predicament and I'm unable to consult with him and he is not feeling okay," she told the court.Justice delayedNdlovu asked for more time to allow her the opportunity to consult. This left Joubert fuming and he accused the State of using delay tactics."The State's conduct is very unethical and unprofessional. They have no respect for the law, court and myself. Justice delayed is justice denied," he said.The magistrate granted the postponement to September 20.Outside court Joubert told the media he hoped the matter would be given priority and that his client would get his chance to apply for bail.The 23-year-old was arrested in connection with his mother's murder in June. Her body was found in the boot of her Range Rover at her home in the Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort, on Saturday, June 11, after a family friend went looking for her.Drugs and a 10kg weight covered in blood were found in the home, police said at the time. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.