Paul Herman, News24 Police officers. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It has come to light that the SAPS in the Western Cape has not recruited a single police reservist in the past three years. Reservists are a vital force multiplier in a province already facing a critical shortage of police officers. Watch. 

WATCH Cape Town - The Western Cape legislature has invited the public to attend hearings into "worrying" shortages at the province's police stations. The Western Cape suffers from one of the largest shortages of police officers countrywide, chairperson Mireille Wenger said in Cape Town on Monday. In 2013 the shortage in the Western Cape accounted for 60% of the national shortage. One hundred and twenty eight police stations, 85%, are understaffed. "This is borne out by the very poor police to population ratios experienced in our most vulnerable communities," she said. The national police-to-population ratio is 1 officer for every 358 people. In Cape Town, 75% of stations are less than the national average, she said. Comments from the public A committee will hold the public hearings to better understand the structural deficiencies in the province and to discover why vacancy and manpower shortages exist. "We don't know the reasons why the Western Cape differs to the other provinces. That is one of the things we want to discover and why such a situation has arisen," she said in answer to a question from News24. Members of the public are invited to attend the hearings or submit written comments by Wednesday, September 28. Two public hearings will take place on October 4 at Trafalgar High School in Cape Town, and Hexpark Primary in Worcester. On October 5, a third hearing will be held at Banquet Hall in George. Questions can be communicated to committee co-ordinator Waseem Matthews at 021 487 1741 or wmatthews@wcpp.gov.za. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  