Wim Pretorius, News24Radovan Krejcir (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - An uncomfortable stun belt and a lawyer&rsquo;s allergies led to another postponement in the murder trial of Radovan Krejcir and four others in the Johannesburg High Court on Wednesday. Krejcir&rsquo;s new lawyer, James Grant, told the court he was unhappy about the stun belt his client had to wear. A court official loosened it a bit before proceedings began.&ldquo;It causes excruciating pain during the two hours travel to the prison and to court,&rdquo; Grant told the court.He applied to Judge Mihloti Msimeki to have it removed. Msimeki quickly shut him down, saying he dealt with the same application in June, when he declined it. &nbsp;Krejcir, Bulgarian Lybohir Grigorov, Mfaniseni Memela, Nkanyiso Mafunda, and Siboniso Miya are on trial for the murder of Lebanese national Sam Issa. He was shot dead in his car at an intersection outside the Bedford Centre mall, Bedfordview, around 06:00 on Saturday, October 12, 2013. JP Marais, for Mafunda, told the court that the State, as promised, on Friday gave him a disc containing cellphone records. The disc was however faulty.&ldquo;I couldn't open it and I also can't take a computer into prison when I consult my client,&rdquo; Marais told the court.The cellphone records reportedly amounted to about 1800 pages and Marais said he had not had enough time to study them. He wanted the State to provide hard copies of those sections of cellphone records relevant to the trial, and access to the originals.The State argued it could not point out those sections of the records that might be used during the trial.Marais told the court that he only received the record of the bail application shortly before Msimeki entered the courtroom on Wednesday. It consisted of around 700 pages. Although all the accused had all previously been denied bail, he said he needed to study the records to take instructions from his client.&ldquo;None of us are trial ready.&rdquo;Miya's lawyer, Anneline van den Heever, said she was suffering from allergies. Her voice was hoarse. She did say that she was able to continue.The matter was postponed to September 20.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.