Tammy Petersen, News24Henri van Breda leaves the Western Cape High Court. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Get Friday's leading news in brief from News24 here.WATCHCape Town - The State will be calling 141 witnesses in their case against axe murder accused Henri van Breda, the National Prosecuting Authority said on Friday.Spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the State had not yet wrapped up their investigation into the triple murder, as forensic reports including DNA evidence and computer data were still outstanding.Van Breda appeared briefly in the Western Cape High Court on Friday on three counts of murder, one of attempted murder and defeating the ends of justice. The matter was postponed to November 18. The trial date has provisionally been set for February 6.Following the 21-year-old&rsquo;s arrest in June, the National Prosecuting Authority said it had a strong case against the student, backed up by evidence to prove he was behind the brutal attack. The State alleges he tampered with the crime scene, inflicted injuries on himself and supplied false information to the police after murdering his parents and brother and attempting to kill his teenage sister. Raised voices were allegedly heard coming from the Van Breda home in Goske Street, De Zalze Winelands Golf Estate, on Monday, January 26, 2015 - the night before the triple murder. The family&rsquo;s home was at the centre of the exclusive estate which boasts high security systems and 24-hour monitoring. The indictment reads that at 04:24 on Tuesday, January 27, Van Breda made a cellphone call to his girlfriend, which went unanswered.&nbsp; No signs of forced entry Three minutes later he apparently did a Google search for emergency numbers. He phoned emergency services at 07:12. When police arrived at the scene, Martin van Breda, his wife Teresa and son Rudi were declared dead. Marli was rushed to hospital with life-threatening injuries, which led to extensive surgery from which she had recovered, the document states. The home showed no signs of forced entry and no property was missing. The security company also did not detect any intruders at the estate. An axe, which the State believes was most likely used in the attacks, was recovered from the scene.&nbsp; A kitchen knife, part of a set, was also recovered. Van Breda was found at the house, dressed in sleeping shorts and white socks. The indictment states that DNA analysis of blood found on Van Breda and on his clothing matches the DNA of his dead family members.Van Breda&rsquo;s wounds, however, were superficial and included knife wounds, the State said.&nbsp; Van Breda is out on R100 000 bail. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.