Yvonne Silaule, News24 CorrespondentDam. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories As we move out of the El Ni o weather system and into a La Ni a, South Africa's drought-stricken areas could be in for some welcome rainfall. What are the current dam levels in SA, compared to last year? eNCA's Candice McKechnie explains. Watch. WATCHBushbuckridge - The Bushbuckridge municipality has announced that level two water usage restrictions will be implemented in the area with immediate effect until further notice.Municipality spokesperson Aubrey Mnisi said the restrictions were in response to the severe drought affecting three main water resources, the Mahleve and Sabie rivers and the Inyaka Dam. Inyaka is currently at 45% of capacity.Mnisi said that a level two restriction means that there should be no watering of gardens and green lawns, no filling of swimming pools, no washing of cars using hosepipes and no taps left running. He also said that all car wash enterprises are restricted from using clean drinkable water."The rivers and dams are running dry daily, leaving low water supply in the system; therefore violation of water restrictions will go with penalties."Anyone found to be violating the by-laws and the restrictions will face prosecution or a fine as per the municipal by-laws and the Water Act," warned Mnisi.The spokesperson said municipal by-law enforcers will be on the ground monitoring compliance and urged the community to conserve as much water as possible."Let's all apply the water conservation tips like taking short showers, washing cars using buckets, turning off water taps while brushing teeth and repairing all water leakages within households. We must protect our water infrastructure because water is life and there is no life without it," he said.On August 29, severe water restrictions were imposed on the Nkomazi municipality in Mpumalanga, this after a state of disaster was declared in June across all South African provinces, except Gauteng, because of the ongoing drought.The South African Weather Service recently withdrew a forecast for an easing of severe drought conditions across southern Africa, citing a continuation of ocean-warming El Ni&ntilde;o conditions. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.