Tshidi Madia, News24ANCYL president Collen Maine outside Luthuli House. (Lizeka Tandwa/News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; More ANC structures are seemingly against an early elective conference than for it.The party&rsquo;s youth league made the call for it in August, following the ANC&rsquo;s poor showing in the local government elections. It said an overhaul of the leadership would help the party win back support.Gauteng and the Eastern Cape had already made their preference for a consultative conference known.Other provinces still had to meet and deliberate on both the call, and the ANC&rsquo;s performance in the August 3 elections. It lost the Nelson Mandela Bay, Tshwane, and Johannesburg metros to the DA.The ANC in Limpopo, which would meet at the weekend, said it supported a consultative conference.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t necessarily have a problem with a consultative process, it must just be lumped together with the policy conference in June 2017,&rdquo; said Limpopo secretary Nocks Seabe.He said the ANC&rsquo;s national executive committee visited the province recently to assess the party&rsquo;s election performance. Seabe said the province raised a number of issues which he hoped the party&rsquo;s national leaders would address.&ldquo;We need them to be hard on discipline and to make sure policies are followed to the letter. Complaints have been brought up regarding nomination processes. They have promised to investigate and, where necessary, to take action.&rdquo;Time to consolidateKwaZulu-Natal ANC members rejected the suggestion of a consultative conference at their recent provincial executive committee meeting.&nbsp;&ldquo;The ANC needs more time to consolidate itself. Calling for an early conference brings about new challenges and then it becomes about leadership,&rdquo; provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said.Ntuli said those calling for an early elective conference were forgetting how much work was needed to prepare for one.ANC Youth League president Collen Maine said discussions with various ANC structures were continuing.&ldquo;We admit that there are those who are for it and those who are not. Many have raised issues of proper preparation for a conference,&rdquo; he told News24. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.