President Robert Mugabe. (AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories President Jacob Zuma has made a speech at the opening of a Bi-National Commission in Harare, where he avoided mentioning the #StateCaptureReport. Harare &ndash; Zimbabwean political analysts and opposition parties have reportedly described President Robert Mugabe as "delusional" and "insane", following his utterances over the weekend that the African continent was ready to pull out of the United Nations if its demands for reform were not met.&nbsp;Mugabe told his ruling Zanu-PF supporters soon after his arrival in Harare on Saturday from the United Nations summit in New York that Africa was ready to pull out of the UN&nbsp;if its demands for two permanent Security Council seats were not met.&nbsp;African countries have, since 2005, been requesting for two permanent seats in the UN Security Council as well as five &nbsp;non-permanent seats, as they demanded a fair representation in the global organisation.An article by The Conversation said that Africa, despite the rambling annual speeches of its leaders at the UN, was rarely heard when it came to decision making.&nbsp;'Reckless and undiplomatic'Mugabe said that the African Union was planning to form a splinter group with countries such as Russia, China and India if the UN Security Council did not include members of its continent next year."It is not all permanent members being tough. It is Britain, France and America&hellip; If they remain adamant, they must not cry foul when we agree to form our own organisation with countries like China, India and other Asian countries. This is what we want to do next year in September, when we have made a commitment," Mugabe was quoted as saying. However, according to NewsDay, various opposition parties described Mugabe's threat as "reckless&nbsp;and undiplomatic". Harare mayor Bernard Manyenyeni,&nbsp;said that the threats by Mugabe would further alienate Zimbabwe from the rest of the world. He said that the move would also bring unimaginable strife to the country's cities which were now dependent on funds that were sourced by the UN agencies.'He is delusional'The Movement for Democratic Change, led by Morgan Tsvangirai said that the country could not afford to leave the UN at any time, as this would be "disastrous" for the southern African nation."As we face biting food shortages, the UN is feeding over a million of our people, while government is clueless. Imagine what would happen if, say, the mad man pulls us out," MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu was quoted saying. Meanwhile, according to New Zimbabwe, the leader of the People&rsquo;s Democratic Party, Tendai Biti said Mugabe&rsquo;s call was "ill-advised", adding that the nonagenarian was "delusional"."He is delusional. No sane African country will pull out of the UN. The UN is part of the global infrastructure that has basically prevented a global war from happening over 70 [years]. The UN has been key in the execution of international law and global diplomacy that has kept the world as safe as possible," Biti was cited as saying. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.