Nokuthula.KhanyilePastor Magic Khanyile (left) speaks to Siyabonga Mazibuko who is battling whoonga addiction. PHOTO: nokuthula khanyile Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories ONE of the whoonga addicts, who was killed in mob justice last Tuesday was laid to rest in Edendale.An article in the Maritzburg Echo on 25 August reported on three whoonga addicts - Edwin Mazibuko (27), Scelo Ndlela (31) and Siyabonga Mazibuko - who said they were tired of being slaves to whoonga and wanted to quit.Two of the three - Mazibuko and Ndlela - were killed last Tuesday by vigilantes. They accused the pair of stealing a Plasma TV in KwaDambuza.Speaking at Mazibuko s funeral last Thursday, Linda Mudiliyar from Newday Wellness South Africa said she was supposed to have a second meeting with Mazibuko and Ndlela to help them fight their whoonga addiction. They cried their hearts out and expressed a desire to change their lives. When we had the first meeting with them, they were happy and hopeful and promised to return for a second meeting, but that did not happen, she said.Mudiliyar said when she got details of their murder she was shattered. How could it be that our children, who were willing to change their lives, were robbed of that opportunity? No human being deserves to die this way. We as the community need to move forward with a greater mission to support those who need us most. Mazibuko s aunt, Gladys Bohloko, said she was thankful to Pastor Magic Khanyile, who had tried to assist her nephew in getting help. We asked Edwin to get help and we were hopeful that he would turn his life around when he reached out to Pastor Khanyile. We are very sad he was killed like this, but we leave it all in God s hands. Pastor Khanyile urged the community not to kill addicts, but rather assist them to get help. I am not saying its okay to smoke whoonga, but like any other addiction we need to understand that it is a serious problem and we must support recovery. There are underlying problems that lead our children to smoke. Most of them smoke to numb emotional pain and escape reality. We cannot judge them, we need to embrace them, as the community . Pastor Khanyile said he was still determined to help whoonga addicts get the assistance they need to fight their habit. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.