A door handle and lock in a bathroom in the hotel at Spier Estate where Susan Rohde died. (Le Roux Schoeman, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A bathroom door of the Spier hotel where Susan Rohde died can be locked and unlocked with a coin, Netwerk24 reported.A R2, R1, 50c or 20c coin works, according to Netwerk24's own tests.Jason Rohde said he found his wife dead in the bathroom of their hotel room on July 24. The multi-millionaire couple had been attending Sotheby's annual conference at Spier Wine Estate.The father of three appeared in the Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court again on Friday and Magistrate Greg Jacobs ruled that he should be allowed to return to his Johannesburg home.- Read the article here:&nbsp;Rohde allowed to return to his Joburg homeNews24 previously reported that Rohde told his lawyer Daniel Witz that he and his wife woke up together that Sunday morning. According to him, she had gone into the bathroom and he fell asleep. When he woke later he was unable to open the bathroom door, Witz said.Hotel maintenance was called to help and Susan was found hanged in the bathroom.A source who knows the hotel set-up told Netwerk24 all bathroom doors in the hotel are the same. The source says the doors of most hotel bathrooms can be locked or unlocked from the outside as a safety mechanism in case people fall ill while in the bathroom.Initially suspected to be a suicide, an inquest docket was opened into Susan Rohde's death and the post-mortem indicated foul play might have been involved.Jason Rohde was arrested on August 23. The businessman was released on bail of R100 000 in August on condition that he provide a R1m surety guarantee by September 14. He complied.He can now return to his home in Johannesburg. His bail was extended and he has to report to his nearest police station.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.