Tammy Petersen, News24Franziska Bl chliger (Screengrab, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Another of the four accused charged with the rape and murder of Tokai teen Franziska Bl&ouml;chliger has dropped his bail bid.Jonathan Jonas became the second accused, after Howard Oliver, to make this decision, the Wynberg Magistrate&rsquo;s Court heard.The two were in court, along with Jerome Moses and Daniel Easter.According to an affidavit read by Monique Carstens, for Moses, the 24-year-old self-confessed drug addict was approached by Oliver at a shop on the day of the murder.Moses, apparently high at the time, alleged Oliver had a cellphone he had wanted to sell. No buyers were interested as the iPhone was password protected.Moses said he then took Oliver to Easter, to whom he had previously sold his own cellphone.Easter, in his affidavit read by attorney Andre Botman, said he bought the phone and was unaware it was stolen.Both had previous convictions. Moses was found guilty of housebreaking, theft, and possession of stolen goods. He said there might be others which he could not remember.Easter was previously convicted of theft and drug possession.The 16-year-old Franziska was found dead in Tokai Forest on March 7. She had arranged to meet her mother after going jogging in the popular recreational area by herself. When Franziska did not arrive at the agreed meeting place, the family began to worry.She was later found strangled and raped. She had been robbed of her iPhone, watch, headset, and diamond ring.The accused are understood to have been linked to the crime through witnesses, and were found in possession of her belongings.The State said it would oppose bail for all four accused. They face charges of murder, rape, and robbery with aggravating circumstances.According to the charge sheet, three of them are from Westlake and one from Steenberg. They are aged between 21 and 32.Franziska's father, Florian Bl&ouml;chliger, attended court proceeding for the first time on Thursday, saying he wanted "to see who it is that is said to have done this" to his daughter. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.