A Metrorail train comes to a standstill before reaching Cape Town station. (Image: Adiel Ismail) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Another train was set alight, in the early hours of this morning. In what Regional Metrorail Manager for the Western Cape, Richard Walker, is calling "a siege", another four carriages were destroyed by fire in Kraaifontein staging yard shortly after midnight. Watch. WATCH Cape Town – It is now open warfare between criminals and
Metrorail in the Western Cape, regional manager Richard Walker warned on Friday
after another train was set alight in the early hours of the morning. Calling it "a siege", Walker said another four
carriages were destroyed by fire in the Kraaifontein staging yard shortly after
midnight. The affected train-set was designated to the Kraaifontein –
Muldersvlei route, Metrorail said in a statement.  Wilful destruction of state infrastructure "We will summarily dismiss any employee who contravenes
company policy or a court order. It is time to rid the region of criminals who
masquerade as employees." He slammed the wilful destruction of vital state
infrastructure. "No person in their right mind will destroy innocent
people’s only means of transport. "Employers are driven to discipline and terminate
employment in desperation because workers are left with unreliable transport,
through no fault of their own," he said "The social and economic impact of such criminal
actions on the province is incalculable." He assured commuters that management was doing everything
within their power to bring an end to the disruption caused by illegal
strikers. Walker commended employees who had refused to be drawn into
the strike and who were focused on continuing to operate trains under very
difficult circumstances. "The Western Cape region has a finite fleet of 89
train-sets to operate 698 trains every weekday, 360 trains on Saturdays and 225
trains on Sundays. The loss of 32 carriages destroyed in six separate incidents
since October last year holds a serious risk of overcrowding." The escalation of deliberate vandalism could not be a
coincidence, Walker said. The vandalism of the trains resulted in delays of an hour or
more on most lines. He apologised to commuters for bearing the brunt of delays. "Anyone requiring proof of delays for employers may
request letters of confirmation at stations or register for the 'Email my boss'
option on the mobi-site www.GoMetroApp.com”." A reward of up to R100 000 has been offered for anyone providing information
that would secure a conviction.Anyone with information is requested to contact report crime or suspicious
behaviour to any of the following numbers:- Crime Stop (08600 10111)- Crime Tip-offs (Sms 32211)- Metrorail Protection Services (021 449 4336)- Transport Information Centre (0800 65 64 63)   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  