Tammy Petersen, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Three-wheeled public transport vehicles may soon hit the streets of Cape Town as the city council opened a tender process for the provision of tuk-tuk operators. Mayoral committee member for transport Brett Herron said in a statement that the appointment would be for public transport operators to operate 80 tuk-tuks - a vehicle designed or modified for transporting up to three passengers, including the driver – across eight areas in Cape Town. "The tuk-tuk vehicles are intended for those wanting to travel short distances of 3km or less to local destinations. The people who will make use of the tuk-tuk vehicles are those who do not necessarily want to make use of a metered taxi service, but also do not want to walk 2km or 3km to their destination," he said. Eight zones - Fresnaye and Bantry Bay; Sea Point, Green Point, Bo-Kaap and De Waterkant; Tamboerskloof, Walmer Estate, University Estate, Zonnebloem and District Six; Kalk Bay, St James and Fish Hoek; and Simon’s Town – have been identified as the operating areas. While 80 operating licences would be allowed, the City has not yet decided how many vehicles will be allowed to operate in each area. A maximum of eight bidders would be appointed and preference given to bidders who use electric tuk-tuks. Environmentally friendly vehicles would receive "bonus points", Herron said. Operators would receive a commercial services contract and would have to set up their own service and cover their own operational costs. The service provider would be paid directly by the commuter and would not be subsidised, while complying with service standards and licence conditions. Operating conditions include that drivers must have a public transport driving licence, vehicles must undergo safety and operational inspections, and the tuk-tuk may only travel at a maximum speed of 30km. The council said that, should the process go according to plan, tuk-tuks could be on the roads as early as September 1.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.