A thief stands freezing after being chased into a dam in Westdene, Johannesburg. (I Love Westdene Community Page, Johannes Vogel, Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A thief in the suburb of Westdene found himself in cold water this week after he tried to escape security guards by jumping into an enclosed dam, trapping himself. According to members on the &ldquo;I Love Westdene&rdquo; Facebook community page, the thief was nabbed after a security guard, who was returning to his guardhouse, saw the man walk past him in the opposite direction, sporting a backpack which looked like his own.The thief had used the backpack to conceal a kettle he had stolen from the guardhouse.After stopping the man and confronting him, the thief reportedly dropped the bag and ran. Two other security guards helped the first guard in pursuit of the thief. After a brief chase, the thief decided to dive into the nearby Westdene Dam, with the three security guards then given time to surround him. &ldquo;Attempted mugging on our street guard goes wrong... mugger chased into the dam... Nothing taken but mugger had to tread water... fight back people these fools are cowards,&rdquo; said Clint Hill on Facebook, who also uploaded a photo, pictured below.Another Facebook user, a photographer named Johannes Vogel, said the thief quickly realised he had nowhere to go, but tried to tread water for about an hour before giving up.&ldquo;It was quite a dramatic day as a thief jumped into the Westdene Dam to escape,&rdquo; said Vogel.&ldquo;It was rainy and the water was freezing. However, he swam with clothes and shoes across the dam and at one stage showed how capable he is doing backstrokes. He eventually set foot on ground after being in the water for more than an hour, but not after making many demands.&rdquo;Vogel uploaded pictures of his own to the community page. He also claimed the thief admitted to be involved in child pornography rings while waiting for the police to arrive.Police were not immediately available for comment. (Clint Hill, "I Love Westdene" Facebook page) (Johannes Vogel, "I Love Westdene" Facebook page) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.