Tammy Petersen, News24Tawfeeq Ibrahim in the dock. Loved ones of murdered Zarah-Jane Hector in pink shirts. (Supplied to News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The two men accused of murdering mother of two, Zarah-Jane Hector, tried to sell the BMW she was driving for R5 000 after they bludgeoned her to death, the Blue Downs Magistrate&rsquo;s Court heard on Thursday. Hector apparently owed Ronaldo van Rooyen money and he and his co-accused, Tawfeeq Ibrahim, had wanted to take the BMW Z3, prosecutor Nathan Adriaanse told the court during Ibrahim&rsquo;s bail application. Her body was bundled into a canvas sheet and into the car&rsquo;s boot. The two allegedly tried to sell the luxury vehicle for R5 000, but buyers pulled out after suspecting the car was stolen. It was later found in Observatory with parts missing.Adriaanse said Ibrahim, 26, and Van Rooyen, 34, had initially intended to kill Hector on March 14, but she received a phone call and left Van Rooyen&rsquo;s Kuils River home before they could execute their plan.Hector was last seen in the duo&rsquo;s company.'Blurted out details'Adriaanse read a sworn affidavit from investigating officer, Sergeant Denise Perel, who said Ibrahim had initially made a statement distancing himself from her disappearance.When he was recalled for more questioning after his and Van Rooyen&rsquo;s accounts did not correlate, he &ldquo;blurted out details&rdquo; and later gave police a statement in which he confessed to this role in Hector&rsquo;s murder, Adriaanse said.He directed police to where Hector&rsquo;s body was found in Groot Drakenstein, and told them how she had been killed with five blows to the head with a hammer in Van Rooyen&rsquo;s garage, Perel said in her affidavit.Adriaanse said that while Ibrahim had no previous convictions, he was a self-confessed drug user.&nbsp;&ldquo;He had even used drugs on the day she was murdered.&rdquo;Most of the witnesses in the State&rsquo;s case are friends and family of the accused. Hector disappeared on March 15 after she left the Oostenberg Lodge in Kuils River where she worked. Her body was found nine days later.Abandoned bail applicationThe two face charges of murder, car theft, and defeating the ends of justice.&nbsp; Van Rooyen abandoned his bail application. Dave Houze, for Ibrahim, said his client was a father of two who needed to provide for his children. His mother was taking care of them while he was in jail. Ibrahim told the court he worked at his father&rsquo;s paving and tarring business and needed to earn money to pay his lawyer. Adriaanse argued that his reasons were insufficient. The two accused face life imprisonment for the murder alone, and were therefore considered a flight risk. Adriaanse said when the allegations were put to him, Ibrahim declined to answer, but did not deny anything. In addition, he tried to intimidate a witness. Three petitions calling for bail to be denied were handed in as evidence. Magistrate Vincent Ketye would deliver his ruling on April 29. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.