Iavan Pijoos, News24 Pastor Mboro (Naledi Shange, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Prophet Paseka Motsoeneng and his church
have been evicted from a building in Roodekop, Germiston, police said. 

 Motsoeneng, better known as Prophet Mboro, apparently
failed to pay rent for three years.  

 He has, however, denied this, saying instead that he
vacated the building on March 1. 

 But Lieutenant Kay Makhubela said Motsoeneng was supposed
to be out of the building by last August.  

 Makhubela said they escorted the Sheriff to execute the
eviction order granted to Frajenron on Friday. 

 He said the Red Ants security team removed everything in
the building. 

 According to the controversial holy man from Katlehong,
he had an agreement to purchase the building. Motsoeneng who runs the Incredible Happenings Ministries
said he went to court from time to time in relation to the building.  "The court told us that we need to leave the
building and that I could claim my money back," Motsoeneng said,
reiterating that he had already vacated the premises. "We have a tent in Katlehong where we have our
services. I don't know what these people are talking about," he said. A handful of church members were seen loading bottles of
water bearing Mboro's picture onto a truck. They also loaded pots, mielie meal,
red carpets, among other things. Other belongings removed from the church included chairs,
gas stoves, buckets, tyres and several vehicles, including a silver-grey sedan. Earlier this week, the Commission for the Promotion and
Protection of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities laid criminal
charges against Motsoeneng.  It said he had failed to comply with a summons to hand over audited financial
statements during their investigation into him and his church, for the
commercialisation of religion. The commission said reports circulating on social media
about pictures of Motsoeneng in heaven were blasphemous and brought
Christianity into disrepute. Motsoeneng, however, said he was suing the commission's chairperson Thoko
Mkhwanazi-Xaluva because she did not refer to the claim of his trip to heaven
as an allegation. "She must account for all this. The commission is supposed to protect
me," Motsoeneng said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  