Precious.GumedeATHOMPSON Motors Shelly Beach client claims the motor dealership over-quoted him to replace a part in his car after he took it in for a service.Clive Collins took his car for service when he was later advised he had to replace the thermostat housing gasket as it had a leak and had to be replaced. I was quoted R380 for a gasket, and including labour, it would be approximately R800, said Collins.Collins declined the replacement at the time and said he would return later. When he returned he explained to them that the gasket is a non-wearable part and the workshop had not given him a valid reason for the gasket to be replaced.Collins went for a second opinion at another dealership in Johannesburg where he was charged R14 for the part.Thompson Motors Shelly Beach was contacted about the issue. Joanne Elliot, who dealt with Collins at Thompson Motors said they quoted for the thermostat housing and gasket, not only the gasket. I explained to the client that he was quoted for a worse-case scenario and that he would have been charged for whichever part was faulty. So if the repair was less than the quote given he would then have been charged the lesser amount, R14, plus labour. She said after Collins declined the replacement, he asked them to check which part was faulty and told us he was not willing to pay. We brought the vehicle into the workshop and showed Mr Collins where the thermostat is fitted and showed him that you cannot see it without removing the part where the leak is coming from. Mr Collins was informed that there would be a labour charge to remove and assess the part. He was adamant that he did not want us to remove the thermostat housing to check which part was affected as he did not want to pay, said Elliot.The client then demanded that the manufacturer pay for the job. Elliot explained that could not happen as his car had been out of warranty for two years. The vehicle is out of warranty and the manufacturer would not pay for the job because he had failed to properly maintain his vehicle, said Elliot. She said the dealership could not make an accurate diagnosis if a customer declines to give them authorisation to carry out the work required to do so.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.