Vuyokazi Mti Legendary RU “Naked-Protest” I commend what the half-naked female protesters of Rhodes University have done. If I was a student, I would have joined in on the protest. The protest against sexual violence is legendary as this is not only a Rhodes University issue, but a societal, national and affects females globally. A human rights issue not given the attention it deserves. What these young women have done is standing up for human rights, women’s rights and a violation towards one. According to online dictionary.com rape is an: “unlawful sexual intercourse or any other sexual penetration of the vagina, anus, or mouth of another person, with or without force, by a sex organ, other body part, or foreign object, without the consent of the victim.” Take note of the words: “with or without force” and penetration “without the consent of the victim.” People tend to associate rape with this extreme all of a sudden scenario of a person you know or a complete stranger grabbing and raping you forcefully. When in fact rape is non-consensual sexual penetration, where there was no agreement between you and the stranger; you and your partner, married or not. It is when the victim did not agree and the perpetrator crosses the boundary, knowing very well that it was not a simple yes. Sexual violence is a serious subject a lot of women are silent about. These protesters are game changers who have initiated the urgency of addressing rape within the different institutions of society and therefore demanding that something be done immediately. It is the forever delayed reaction that has condoned rape in our communities, silencing victims. It is time women in higher education institutions and society at large continued to fight for their rights, giving a voice to the voiceless and making sure that those who have done such violation are accountable for their actions. Family is the one institution that will assist in raising a generation of men who respect and protect a woman; where they are taught to respect the others boundary. It is our duty as the family structure to instil to our girls at a very young age that, they are valued enough to be treated with the respect they deserve. Our boys should also be brought up to understand the significance of their role in society and in a woman's life without having to exercise violation against their rights; consequently, ensuring a safe environment for women. Communication is vital in society and if it is implemented within the family structure and communities, it will definitely contribute towards playing a role in modelling behavioural patterns of moral values.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.