Naledi Shange, News24 Wits students (Mpho Raborife, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A few people among protesting students were frogmarched into a police van during a demonstration in Johannesburg on Friday, 19 February. Writer Panashe Chigumadzi detailed the arrest as it happened. She published reports of "roller coaster driving" en route to Hillbrow police station.  Students had gathered on Empire Road to protest over student accommodation.WATCH Johannesburg - UCT student activist Chumani Maxwele was among those who took part in the protest action at the University of Witwatersrand on Monday. In a telephonic conversation with News24, he said they were "shutting down the university". He said they had come to protest in solidarity with students from several universities, including Wits, who had been suspended. It was unclear what these suspensions were in relation to. As he spoke to News24, students could be heard singing struggle songs in the background. One student, @MwilaJay_Kafula tweeted: "Wits is liiiiiiiiit.  just got kicked out of a lecture," while @LaiksMabona tweeted: "Kicked out of class this morning and I can't leave campus. Wits what's happening." It was understood that the protesters were spraying fire extinguishers all over the campus. Maxwele, who was active in the Rhodes Must Fall movement, appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court last week alongside 28 other students where charges against them, relating to the #FeesMustFall protests, were withdrawn. The students had faced various charges of contravening the Public Gatherings Act, public violence and trespassing. Some of the students had been arrested on the UCT campus during protests towards the end of last year, while others were arrested outside Parliament after students forced their way onto the parliamentary precinct during a sitting for Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene's mid-term budget speech.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  