Wim Pretorius, News24(Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The Gauteng school admissions website has finally gone live after most of its bugs and glitches were fixed, Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said on Tuesday. The system was meant to be online at 08:00 on Tuesday, but following more glitches, that deadline was pushed to 10:00. The system was eventually back online after 13:00. At 14:30, at least 18 000 people were online.He said the initial server could only take 600 users per second, which caused the system to crash last Monday. Vodacom was approached and agreed to upgrade the servers to accommodate 20 000 users.Lesufi apologised to the unhappy parents."This was a major delay. We had to shut down and reprogram the system," he said.Blind parents needed to be catered for and that the department would communicate with them.Online registration was intended to help the department get pupil numbers and the number of desks and chairs and classrooms that were needed. Lesufi said the project started in 2015 with the aim of relieving pressure for parents wanting to register.Lesufi said the rule of first come first serve would no longer apply. The names of prospective pupils would be placed on waiting lists. Waiting list A (those living closest to the school) would be placed first, followed by those on the B list.Parents living without internet were encouraged to go to local public libraries to register."All communities have libraries with internet," Lesufi said.The Federation of Governing Bodies of SA on Tuesday threatened to take Lesufi to court over problems with the system."I am aware of some people wanting to take me to court. To them I have only one message: Bring it on. I'm ready for you," Lesufi said.In January, Lesufi reported that around 10 400 pupils had not been placed at schools. On Tuesday, he clarified that many of these were duplicates caused by parents attempting to register at more than one school.He said all these children had since been placed at schools.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.