Lizeka Tandwa, News24Julius Malema (File: Foto24) ((Denvor De Wee, Foto24)) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; EFF leader Julius Malema has blamed the ANC for the death of 10 volunteers who were killed on Sunday returning from the party&rsquo;s manifesto launch in Port Elizabeth at the weekend.&ldquo;People in Port Elizabeth didn&rsquo;t go to that nonsense; they had to take people with buses from Zululand and Mafikeng. You take people from Mafikeng to a rally in PE. It is an acceptance of defeat. If you take people to PE, you don&rsquo;t have support. That is why people died in that bus,&rdquo; he said. Malema was speaking to communities in Jabulani in Soweto ahead of the EFF&rsquo;s manifesto launch on April 30. Malema then sent his condolences to the families and the ANC in Ekurhuleni but said the accident could have been avoided.Won't risk lives to fill stadium&ldquo;Our sympathy is with families and the leadership of Ekurhuleni. We are with them, but it is an accident which could have been avoided by refusing to take people as far as Ekurhuleni to PE. Stop playing with people's lives,&rdquo; Malema said. He said the EFF would not risk the lives of people in their manifesto launch by busing in people from other provinces. &ldquo;You mean in PE you don&rsquo;t have support of 45 000? In Orlando Stadium no one will be coming from PE... it will be people from here only. &ldquo;If we can&rsquo;t fill the stadium, there is no problem. We are not going to risk the lives of people just to fill up the stadium. We will speak to those who are there. In all our rallies, there is no bus that travelled more than 200 kms. We might not be strong in numbers but we are strong in quality,&rdquo; he said.On Sunday a bus carrying ANC volunteers overturned in the Free State killing 10 people. Several others were injured and taken to nearby hospitals.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.