Naledi Shange, News24  Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. (Themba Hadebe, AP)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The ex-wife of former president Nelson
Mandela, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, will continue to fight for the rights
to his home in Qunu, Eastern Cape, despite her defeat in the Mthatha High
Court.  

 "We are not happy about the judgment, obviously, and
will be filing an appeal, either to the Supreme Court of Appeal or the
Constitutional Court, depending on the issues we will be raising,"
Madikizela-Mandela's lawyer, Mvuzo Notyesi, told News24. 

 The papers for the appeal could be filed as early as next
week.  

 In a quick judgment, the High Court had on Thursday
dismissed Madikizela-Mandela's application for ownership of the late former
president's home. "We disagree with the conclusion. It suggests that she
should have [challenged] the will earlier, but she could not have vetted until
everything was concluded," Notyesi said.  He said the court had judged the matter on technicalities,
and not on its merits.  Notyesi had got the ball rolling on the legal battle when he
reportedly wrote to Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke two years ago.  In the letter, Notyesi argued that AbaThembu custom dictated that the rights to
the property should go to Madikizela-Mandela and her descendants. This was applicable, irrespective of whether the wife was
divorced or not, Notyesi wrote in the letter. "It is only in this home that the children and grandchildren of Mrs
Madikizela-Mandela can conduct their own customs and tradition." Some AbaThembu leaders had argued that Madikizela-Mandela should have first
approached the clan's elders, before laying claim to the estate. On Thursday, the Royal House of Mandela celebrated the court
victory. 

 Chief of the Royal House of Mandela, Mandla Mandela, said
the ruling honoured Madiba's final wishes that the Qunu residence be managed by
the executors of his estate. 

 When Mandela died in December 2013, he was married to Graca
Machel.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  