Amanda Khoza, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – Moments after a man cuddled and kissed his 2-month-old son, he allegedly smashed the boy's skull on the floor of his estranged lover's home in Ngwavuma, northern KwaZulu-Natal. In the baby's last moments, the father, apparently in a fit of rage, held him by the ankles and smashed his body repeatedly on the ground while the mother and her sister watched in horror on Tuesday morning. The KZN police, who initially reported that the child was female, are investigating the incident. As the crumpled child lay on the floor, his mother wailed while her loved ones tried to revive him. The grandmother, 44, told News24 on Wednesday that she never thought the 24-year-old man would "do such a heartless thing". "He was like a son to me. How could he do that to my only grandchild? I just want to bury him and forget that this ever happened." Man would visit daughter The woman said her daughter, 16, had separated from her boyfriend in January after she gave birth. She said her daughter moved back home and the man would come to see the baby daily, sometimes more than once a day. "He came all the time, sometimes carrying a panga or a large knife. "Yesterday, he came early in the morning and asked to see the baby. He saw the baby, held and kissed him and then handed him back to my other daughter." She said the man then demanded to take the child home with him. "My daughter asked him why he wanted to take the baby because he had already seen him. She then told him he could not take the baby because she needed permission from me or the elders." Baby stopped breathing immediately The man was allegedly angered by the response. "He pushed my daughter who was holding the baby and she fell, but the baby was not hurt. When she got up, he forcefully grabbed the baby from her arms and bashed him on the floor two times and then there was silence." She said her grandson, who was going to turn 3-months-old on April 18, stopped breathing immediately. "When my daughters saw this, they started crying. The mother of the child rolled on the floor while the others took the child and poured water on him but this did not help." They took the baby to the hospital but it was too late, said the grandmother."I am deeply hurt by what happened. He was always in my home and he was always laughing with us. I never thought he would do such a horrible thing. We are still shocked by what happened," she said. The woman said she was confused and asked why the police had not made an arrest. "He is still lurking around and when I see him in the area my heart sinks. Maybe I would do better if he was behind bars. I don’t know if I will be able to forgive him, this was my first and only grandson." Police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said no arrests had been made. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  