Monique BassonTyron van Tonder from All Africa Backpackers in Jeffreys Bay recently started the J Bay Lost Pets Facebook Page in a bid to help relocate lost pets with their owners. Africa and Tsotsi are two rescue animals, who suffered horribly before finding their forever home at All Africa Backpackers. Photo: MONIQUE BASSON Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories PET-OWNERS in Kouga can now make use of a Facebook page aimed at reuniting lost pets with their owners.The page, J Bay Lost Pets, was started by animal-lover Tyron van Tonder from All Africa Backpackers in Jeffreys Bay in March this year and already boasts close to 50 friends.According to Tyron, he realised the need for this type of service after viewing multiple posts all over Facebook about owners looking for their lost pets, and even those looking for forever homes for abandoned pets. They work closely with the JBay Animal Rescue Sanctuary. The idea was to create one platform where residents can post messages about lost or found pets, says Tyron. A lot of times people see posts of a lost pet, but once they want to go back to that post after, for instance, seeing a pet that looked similar to that one on the photo, they have no idea where they have seen the post. By having one platform, going back to old or new posts will be a whole lot easier. Facebook was an easy choice as anyone could access it and make posts anytime. It is also great to receiving feedback when animals are found and taken back home, as well as to see just how many people care. According to Tyron, they have had many success stories and some heartbreaking ones. We share everyone s joy and heartbreak and know how painful it is when a beloved pet is missing. He asks residents to please use discretion when picking up lost animals. Sometimes - if not most of the times - they are not lost, but just having a jol and know their way back home. Tyron urges people who have found or lost an animal, to report it as soon as possible by posting on the J Bay Lost Pets Facebook Page. The post should contain a photo of the animal, as much detail as to where the animal was found or lost, person s name and contact number.This page is only for people who want to advertise lost and found animals, as well as animals needing a home. They do not advertise animals that are for sale. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.