Amanda Khoza, News24Kevin Malunga. (Picture: Muntu Vilakazi/City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The deputy public protector on Friday criticised the eThekwini municipality for using public resources to host American rapper Nicki Minaj while Kennedy Road informal settlement&rsquo;s residents lived in squalor."No one can defend the living conditions that these people are living under, especially now that Nicki Minaj has been to Durban," Advocate Kevin Malunga said during an in loco inspection at the settlement.During an executive council meeting last month, it was revealed that the City would spend R3.7m to bring American rappers T.I. and Minaj to Durban.Malunga was visiting the area to see whether there had been developments since the public protector&rsquo;s office last visited in December. It was part of ongoing efforts to deal with security and service delivery concerns at the Glebelands hostel and other informal settlements."A lot has not been done since our last visit. There are a lot of complaints about structures that are not stable, that have been constructed by the service provider," Malunga said.There were allegations that homes were built for R35&nbsp;000 each. They had large cracks and were unsafe, there were no retaining walls, they were flooded, had problems with sanitation, and people were living in filth, he said.UnemploymentThe high level of unemployment among the young people was one of the things that struck him.&nbsp; "My plea to the City is to re-evaluate how it spends resources with the people in such areas. The City is releasing a R41bn budget on Monday. It will be a big event with air-conditioning, food and nice speeches. The question is, do the people understand that and how much will be allocated to solving their problems?"He said the City needed to work with the provincial and national government in a way similar to Glebelands, to help Kennedy Road.His office was intervening in similar situations in other provinces."This is a textbook case for South Africa. The City needs to see this as an opportunity and a wake-up call to do their job because that is what people pay rates for."He reminded the City about the Constitutional Court&rsquo;s Nkandla ruling, that President Jacob Zuma had flouted the Constitution when he ignored Public Protector Thuli Madonsela's remedial action to repay some of the money spent on his Nkandla homestead. The court found the Public Protector&rsquo;s remedial action was binding."The Constitutional Court has made it clear that what we do is binding and this is not a joke. We are not here to have fun. We are here to change people&rsquo;s lives," Malunga said. &nbsp;The public protector&rsquo;s office was on Friday afternoon expected to hold talks with the eThekwini municipality to discuss Kennedy Road and come up with solutions.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.