Michael.ZondiPOLITICAL heavyweights from organisations around KwaZulu-Natal have thanked Gift of the Givers and other partners for working around the clock to distribute water, food parcels, detergent and personal hygienic packs.Gift of the Givers team and volunteers, led by operations manager Sallim Sayed, have been travelling to various areas of KwaZulu-Natal distributing millions of litres of water and other items to assist communities badly affected by the ongoing drought.Sayed said most of the areas affected by the drought are around Zululand. We are most busy in Mpangeni, Richards Bay, Eshowe, Hluhluwe, Nongoma, Vryheid and outlying municipalities. The conditions are shocking and to see dams and rivers almost running dry made all of us emotional and we realised the drought is real and is disastrous. This is also a huge lesson for all of us [we need to realise] that water is precious and we need to take care of nature and save water. Sayed says Gift of the Givers drought relief campaign is unlikely to end soon and appealed to people, companies and municipalities to join hands with his organisation and help affected communities. Unfortunately, the majority of KZN is badly hit by drought and there is no rain. Our prayers are directed at seeing good rain coming down. The situation is bad, and we are not too sure when we will stop our the drought campaign. Recently Sayed s staff visited affected areas under uThungulu District Municipality to offer assistance and was joined by Edendale-born, former Laduma High School pupil and uThungulu District Municipality mayor, Thembeka Mchunu, KZN premier, Senzo s wife, the deputy mayor of uThungulu, Nonhle Mkhulise (ANC chairperson in uThungulu), King Goodwill Zwelithini and King Zwelithini s Bayede Foundation CEO, Rhana Naicker.Mchunu said KZN and South Africa was lucky and blessed that there is a humanitarian or disaster organisations such as Gift of the Givers that is always prepared to spend many sleepless nights helping affected communities. The drought situation is very bad and many people around KZN and some areas are suffering because there is no water. We are thankful, grateful and humbled by the help and support from this organisation. Mkhulise says the humanitarian and disaster organisation has become family around Zululand and KZN. Gift of the Givers have become part and parcel of our communities. They are always there to help and take our communities out of poverty, said Mkhulise.The king of the Zulus said there are no perfect or suitable words good enough to thank the work tirelessly done by the organisation around the country, especially in KZN. As king I m involved with a lot of community projects and this organisation is always on board and available to help. Their drought relief campaign that started late last has been outstanding, pure class and out of this world.Maybe I don t have perfect words to describe work done by the Gift of the Givers around the country and especially in my land. Companies communities, business sectors and municipalities who wish to join hands in the drought campaign can contact Sayed on 083 651 2006 or call in at Gift of the Givers warehouse at 31 Willowton Road.Gift of the Givers team and volunteers, led by operations manager Sallim Sayed, have been travelling to various areas of KwaZulu-Natal distributing millions of litres of water and other items to assist communities badly affected by the ongoing drought24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.