Mbongiseni MasekoBongani Hlakuva, Zukile Hlakuva, Mhlanguli Hlakuva, Nobandla Hlakuva and Sandile Hlakuva are grieving the death of Masakhe Radio Guzu who was allegedly stabbed to death by his cousins, in Khayelitsha. PHOTO: Mbongiseni Maseko Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The family of a man who was allegedly stabbed to death by his cousins and his lifeless-body found dumped in an open filed are struggling to come to terms with his death.The body of Masakhe Radio Guzu, 37, of Site B in Khayelitsha, was found dumped in Muizenberg on 13 March.Mhlanguli Hlakuva, Guzu s uncle, said the deceased was fetched from home by his three cousins, who cannot be named at this stage, at about 8pm, on the day his body was found.The family became aware about his death on 23 March after a long search.Hlakuva said they opened a case of a missing persons at the Khayelitsha Police Station after he did not come back home and a search in mortuaries, hospitals and in the area was launched.He said he was on his way from work when he found the suspects in the deceased s home and they then drove him in their Toyota Avanza.Hlakuva said they heard some information that they stabbed Guzu to death because they had a grudge against him for something of no substance. They had a grudge against him, that is why they killed him. They suspected that he was involved in the killing of Mfuzo Luthuli, but there is nothing that supported the accusations against him, he added.Luthuli was stabbed during what they suspected was a robbery and his lifeless body found next to O.R Tambo Hall about six years ago. He said Guzu was never linked to the killing of Luthuli. I did not suspect anything after I found the boys in the house because I know them and they are his cousins. They gave him alcohol before they drove away with him. He never came back after that. We searched for him in vain. They dumped his body in Muizenberg on the night they fetched him. No one expected this to happen. We are in shock and it is hard to believe this, Hlakuva said.Nocawe Hlakuva, the deceased s cousin, said she was angry that the suspects fetched him from the comfort of his home to kill him.The deceased and the suspects grew-up together in Qoboqobo, in the Eastern Cape.Lieutenant Marcellus Rajap, Corporate Communication Service at Khayelitsha Police Station said the case of a missing person was first registered at the police station, but it was later changed to murder after Guzu s body was found in Muizenberg.Rajap confirmed that the case of murder was being investigated by Muizenberg police. It was not immediately clear if there are any arrests made. Funeral arrangements were not finalised at the time of going to print.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.