Amanda Khoza, News24(Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories News24 &ndash; Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng on Thursday challenged South Africans to dig deep and reflect on whether they had betrayed the sacrifices of anti-apartheid activists Victoria and Griffiths Mxenge. &ldquo;Do we act like we have arrived or act like it is all over now that we have voted? Or do we appreciate the reality that so much more needs to be done if Griffiths and Victoria lived and died to make South Africa become a reality?&rdquo;Mogoeng was speaking at the 14th&nbsp;Victoria and Griffiths Mxenge Memorial Lecture at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Howard College.&nbsp;It was also the School of Law Awards Ceremony.&ldquo;The cause was never about a few black people becoming rich, it was about ensuring that the ideals that drove and moved people like Mac Maharaj to go into exile and others... must be carried forward. Sitting back and sitting safe when there is so much to do is a betrayal of the sacrifice made by Victoria and Griffiths Mxenge," Mogoeng.Rather pay students' university fees&ldquo;What is it that makes us sit comfortably and watch or offer criticism and not do anything to actively advance the cause like Victoria and Griffiths and many others did?&ldquo;Who said the struggle is over when people are living in shacks? What individual contribution are you making?&rdquo;Mogoeng said ordinary South Africans could make a change. &ldquo;Is a big car a show of success? Some of you even have five houses. When do you have time to occupy them? You spend so much rather than pay for the fees of the students who are shouting #FeesMustFall.&rdquo;He asked what South Africans were doing to correct the injustices of the past.Mogoeng recently delivered the Constitutional Court ruling on the Nkandla matter. He ruled that President Jacob Zuma had flouted the Constitution when he ignored Public Protector Thuli Madondela's remedial action on the non-security upgrades done at his private home.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.