Jenna Etheridge, News24 Nelson Mandela told Eskom's former head before democracy to not change anything, 'as long as you continue to produce cheap electricity and connect more black South Africans to the grid.' (Photo: File/AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – A project team is set to consider suitable locations in Cape Town for another statue of late president Nelson Mandela. The Cape Town city council’s naming committee resolved this week that a heritage manager would set up and manage the team, said committee chairperson Brett Herron. He told News24 that the team would include urban designers and arts and culture professionals. "The Grand Parade is one suggestion [for a location]. It depends on what type of installation we will be looking at, as well as other factors." The team would look at the cost of designing the statue and initiate a competitive process for artists. The committee was hoping for a report back at its next meeting in May. Herron said he hoped the team could conclude the process quickly. A proposal was put forward in 2013 to erect a statue of Mandela in the Company’s Garden. The city last year unveiled a bust of Mandela at the City Hall, near where he gave his first speech after being released from Victor Verster prison in 1990. Thousands gathered at the Grand Parade to catch a glimpse of the man they had not seen for 27 years. Herron said the council had tried working with Parliament for the statue project, but the plan never came to fruition. However, they remained open to collaboration with it. In 2014, Parliament erected a bronze bust of Mandela near the steps of the National Assembly building. Herron said Parliament’s bust "was a wonderful bust", but was not openly accessible to all members of the public. "We decided to do this as a city project. We have always wanted to do something." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  