Jenna Etheridge, News24(File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Fugitive from justice Lee Tucker, who is wanted in the UK on 42 child sex charges, was on Tuesday granted bail in Cape Town, but with strict conditions. The Cape Town Magistrate&rsquo;s Court set bail at R150 000, Tucker&rsquo;s attorney Leon van der Merwe said.&ldquo;He is not allowed to fly as a pilot, he is not allowed within 100m of an airport or shipping port and he has to report every day at the Sea Point police station,&rdquo; he told News24.&ldquo;He also has to wear a monitoring bracelet.&rdquo; Tucker, 52, was arrested in Cape Town last month after a provisional arrest request from the UK. Avon and Somerset police spokesperson Wayne Baker, in England, confirmed to News24 at the time that South African police arrested Tucker on their behalf."The man is wanted by Avon and Somerset police in connection with non-recent sex offences committed in the South Wales. The offences are alleged to have occurred in the late 1980s and early 1990s," Baker said.Tucker made a living in South Africa as a helicopter pilot and instructor. He was sentenced in absentia to eight years' imprisonment in the Swindon Crown Court. This was for four counts of buggery (anal intercourse), three counts of indecent assault (oral sex), and two counts of administering a stupefying drug to two boys.He lodged an appeal in his absence, which was granted in 2002. The Court of Appeal ordered that the convictions be quashed and a re-trial be held. It directed that Tucker and his co-appellant be arraigned on a fresh indictment within two months. Cape Town Magistrate Grant Engel recently ruled that Tucker was indeed a fugitive from justice for evading charges for over 15 years. Engel said the buggery and indecent assault charges constituted rape in South Africa. The court rejected the defence of double jeopardy as there was never a final judgment. Van der Merwe said a date for an extradition hearing would be set at Tucker&rsquo;s next appearance on May 27. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.