Tammy Petersen, News24 Western Cape police head Khombinkosi Jula speaks to the media. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - No criminals, especially druglords, will remain untouchable, new Western Cape police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula warned on Thursday. "We are re-organising ourselves and are going to raise the bar in terms of accountability, visibility and interventions to ensure that we deal with the drug problem and druglords in this province," the top cop said. "We are focusing on the highfliers. We have a strategy to do that; all we want is support." Jula was speaking in Gugulethu, following his first meeting with Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille, in a bid to tackle the city’s crime scourge through an integrated approach. The City of Cape Town’s Metro Police are in the process of drawing up their 2016/2017 plan to be submitted to Jula by the end of the month. Jula said a combined effort was needed to tackle the Cape’s gang and drug bane. "This problem is destroying the moral fibre of society," he insisted. "Our partnership approach will include the mobilisation of the religious community and ordinary members of the public. "At the moment, we are in the process of ensuring we are stronger on the ground. We want to increase visibility." Jula has been in the police force for 28 years, of which more than 10 were at a senior management level. He previously worked as the deputy provincial commissioner for operational services in KwaZulu-Natal and holds a national diploma in police administration and a degree in policing. He promised that communities under his watch would get the service from the police that they deserve. "Our accountability methods won’t just be a document developed and not enforced. There will be an effective evaluation of impact," he promised. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  