Lynn.HitchcockLoud, bright fireworks propose a danger to animals and people. Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories IT only takes one loud bang to spoil the momentous occasions on New Year s Eve, Guy Fawkes and Diwali as families gather to celebrate. The minutes watching the skies light up after fireworks have been lit, with crowds oohing and aahing results in many animals being displaced, hurt, maimed and scared.Hillcrest resident Miles Steenhuisen said after this New Year s Eve he realised he could not watch the animals suffer without doing something. I drove around and it was a real eye opener - there were terrified animals roaming the streets not knowing how to get back home and I assisted in getting them to the SPCA and finding their families. Steenhuisen soon set the ball in motion for the Fireworks must fall campaign and quickly rallied support from animal rights organisations - local and national - which include Fireworks Banning Initiative and Hindus Against Fireworks. This has started a nationwide coalition called the Anti-Fireworks Alliance.He said the alliance raises awareness about the dangers of fireworks, which extend beyond pets, to other wildlife and people too. They plan to engage with municipalities to revise inadequate by-laws and with Metro police to ensure the by-laws are properly policed.Steenhuisen said that when fireworks are lit, more often than not, properties are damaged, wildlife sanctuaries set alight, children and adults are hurt and animals are tormented.He said the campaign does not target any particular group or individual, it is looking out for the well-being of the community.Steenhuisen added there are by-laws which have been passed fining or imprisoning people who cause public disturbances and offenders should be aware of this before setting off a firework. The small colourful displays are fine, it is the loud bangs we want banned. Loud bangs cause unnecessary chaos and are of no enrichment to any community. If you feel the same and as passionate, please sign the petition - join the Facebook page to make a difference instead and be part of this long overdue solution, he added.Contact fireworksmustfallkzn@gmail.com for the petition or for more information.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.