Karabo Ngoepe, News24 (Karabo Ngoepe, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria – Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has given her support to the EFF to continue fighting for a better South Africa, leader Julius Malema said on Sunday. Malema told residents of Ebony Park near Midrand the stalwart had given them her vote of confidence when he went to visit her in hospital. "Before coming here I was at the hospital to see Winnie Mandela. She is getting better and doctors are thinking of releasing her. When I left she said we must continue on the path we are on and that she is proud of us," said Malema. "When you’re told by a stalwart that fought against apartheid and [she] says this is what we were fighting for, there is no turning back. We have the blessing of a struggle veteran." Malema was speaking to the community ahead of his party’s local government election manifesto launch at Orlando Stadium on April 30. Malema said it was not only Madikizela-Mandela who supported the party and its plan to have President Jacob Zuma removed from power. Struggle veterans had enough "You heard the likes of [Ahmed] Kathrada talking, George Bizos saying this one with a butternut head must sit down. They don’t want him. If you thought it was only EFF, it’s not. "The real leaders of our struggle, the struggle veterans are saying they are tired. These are the men and women who lived with Mandela, they went to prison fighting for this land, and they have also had enough," said Malema. Malema said the country was slowly realising the damage caused by ANC government. He said it had become a norm in society for people do leaders favours before they could get government services. "It’s not only the young people here; even the elderly people are saying the youth is unemployed. That RDP houses are given to those who are willing to sleep with councillors. Jobs are given to people within the ANC. That should not be happening. You should get a job with your ID and qualifications," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  