Jenna Etheridge, News24 (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Sulnita Manho left a Bredasdorp pub shortly before she was raped and killed at the weekend - the same pub that teenager Anene Booysen visited before she was slain - a community policing forum member said on Thursday. "She was there with her friends and a guy asked to walk with her. She went with the guy and never came back," Napier CPF member and councillor Evelyn Sauls told News24. "The next morning they knew she had passed away." Sauls said Manho, 22, had walked from the farm where she was staying - between Napier and Bredasdorp - to the informally dubbed "Kallie se pub" on Saturday. In February 2013, 17-year-old Anene Booysen had joined friends at the pub before being found raped and disembowelled at a nearby spot. She later died at Tygerberg Hospital. Her killer, Johannes Kana, who admitted to walking her home from the pub before raping her, was eventually given two life sentences. On Saturday morning, Manho’s body was found at the lime works in the rural Overberg town, Western Cape police confirmed. Torture Sauls detailed the brutal injuries sustained by the young woman. "There was a rope on her neck. She was raped and a bottle was put in her private parts. The person took a brick and hit her on the head." Residents were said to be very upset about the latest killing to rock the town. "They want to do something, but they don’t know what," said Sauls. "I really don’t know what is going on. Teenagers don’t go to school. Some pass matric, but don’t get work. Drugs are a very big problem." Preliminary investigations led to the arrest of a 20-year-old man shortly after the killing. He faces charges of murder and rape. He was expected back in the Bredasdorp Magistrate’s Court next week. The town has been plagued by a series of brutal murders in recent years. Two years after Booysen's death, the body of 5-year-old Kayde Williams was found in a bushy area in the town after she was reported missing. A few months after Williams was killed, 15-year-old Elda Jaftha was found dead under the bed of a 29-year-old man believed to be her boyfriend. Last year, Xolelwa Vuma, 30, became the fourth victim of a brutal murder when she was stabbed to death in August. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  