Cape Town – Former gang leader Rashied Staggie was very disappointed when he and three others were arrested for allegedly being in possession of expensive stolen whisky and cigars, his friend said on Monday. Pastor Ivan Waldeck said Staggie, a motivational speaker, had played a pivotal role in bringing peace to gang-stricken Manenberg recently. He said Staggie had worked night and day for peace there. "I trust him. I have worked with him for 21 years. He is genuine and ready to help." Staggie, who was out on parole, was employed as a cleaner at Waldeck's rehabilitation centre in Bellville. On Monday, the Cape Town Magistrate's Court granted bail of R5 000 each to Staggie, Joao de Gouveia, Jayaraj Pillay and his 19-year-old son Michaheel Pillay. The four were charged with possession of suspected stolen property. Prosecutor Dail Andrews said police had responded to a tip-off at Century City last week. There they found the accused with 23 bottles of Johnnie Walker Ggreen, which was believed to have come from a R10.5m shipment stolen from Cleveland, Johannesburg, earlier in the month. The court heard that officers responding to the tip-off in Cape Town caught the men transferring some of the bottles between vehicles. They were also found in possession of British cigarettes and Cuban cigars. Waldeck said the accused were having lunch at Century City before they were arrested. "That Thursday, I was also invited to lunch and should have been arrested. The Hawks and the SAPS and the justice system, they have their own ideas." He claimed police officers had quarrelled in Bellville over whether to arrest Staggie. "Rashied is feeling better and is ready for work," Waldeck said. On Monday, Staggie's wife Rashieda, children and others supported him in court. He was ordered to report to the correctional services department by 16:00 on Monday. Staggie, once the leader of the Hard Livings gang, was granted full parole in 2014 after serving 13 years behind bars for a burglary at the Faure police armoury. Pagad members killed his brother Rashaad, who also held a top rank in the gang, in 1996. He was shot and set alight in Salt River.