Jenni Evans, News24(Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town&nbsp;&ndash; &nbsp;Freedom Front Plus MP Pieter Groenewald has accused government of lying about its land reform programme by transferring land to itself instead of to people who lodged claims. "The reality is the government of the day is busy nationalising land. The day the Economic Freedom Fighters thinks it's going to nationalise ground, they will find the government has already nationalised it," said Groenewald during the department of rural development and land reform's budget vote in Parliament on Tuesday. The department has a budget of R10.124bn for the 2016/17 period. Groenewald claimed very few individuals currently held title deeds as a result of land reform. "So who is actually the owner? The owner is the state," he said.This was a problem because without title deeds for security, banks wouldn't give loans to new land owners. Threatening food securityGroenewald claimed 90% of land reform projects had failed and only one out of 10 commercial farms obtained through land reform were operating. "You are threatening food security in South Africa," he continued. He dismissed Minister of Land Reform Gugile Nkwinti's pledge that women living on land run by traditional leaders would have greater security, because "if a traditional leader says they must leave, they must leave". He said 43% of land claimants chose cash because it was easier than owning land. Earlier, Nkwinti lauded the government's agri-park projects which were expected to create thriving small businesses in 44 municipalities. Some R2bn has been made available for this. He said that since re-opening land claims 143 720 claims had already been registered. "Gone are the days when rural areas are poor and only the suppliers of jobs to the urban areas," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.