Pietermaritzburg - Irate community members in Copesville
went on the rampage on Monday, setting alight a councillor's house and the
local clinic, and blocking off roads with burning tyres. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said
in a statement 27 suspects were arrested for public violence. They appeared in
the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate's Court on Monday and were released on warning.
The case was remanded to May 24 for further investigation. He said trouble started brewing when about 5 000 community
members started protesting about service delivery, blockading the New Greytown
Road with burning tyres, stones and metal barriers. "The councillor’s house was set alight. Two park homes
of the local clinic were also set alight. Again on yesterday morning, they
blockaded the road by burning tyres. The Mountain Rise police and Public Order
Police are in the area to monitor the situation." KZN provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Mmamonnye
Ngobeni welcomed the arrest of the suspects. “We are appealing to the members of the community to
exercise their rights to protest, peacefully. We strongly condemned the acts
where properties are damaged by the unruly crowd. Those involved will face the
long arm of the law,” she said. Local leadership met on Monday to try and resolve the
issues. Zwane said no new reports of violence have been received,
but police will keep on monitoring. Meanwhile, KZN Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo in a statement
condemned an attack on two Emergency Medical Services paramedics who were
targeted after they responded to a call in the Sinathing area outside
Pietermaritzburg on Monday night. His spokesperson Desmond Motha said reports indicated that
the male and female paramedics were attacked by unknown people at around
midnight. "One of the paramedics sustained stab wounds while his
crew member was assaulted," said Motha. Dhlomo said the attack on paramedics was
"barbaric" and "compromises the safety of our emergency workers
and cripples the essential services they render". (SAPS)  