An elephant is pictured at the Tsavo east national park approximately 337km southeast from the capital Nairobi. (Tony Karumba, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tsavo – Dangling from a helicopter with a high
powered rifle, a Kenyan vet fires drugged darts at elephants to sedate them so
they can be fitted with satellite collars. Ten minutes after the elephant is darted, the
lumbering creature stumbles, and falls asleep. Ground teams are scrambled,
rushing to the scene with just a 20 minute window to conduct tests and fit the
collar before it regains consciousness. More than 12 000 elephants live in Tsavo Park,
threatened daily by poaching, but also more recently, by the construction of a
new high-speed railway linking Kenya's coast to the capital. The new 483km train route linking Kenya's Nairobi
to the country's main port Mombasa is worrying conservationists, who fear the
new infrastructure slicing through the giant Tsavo national park will affect
the movement of elephants. It is hoped that the satellite radio tracking
collars fitted last month by the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and conservation
group Save the Elephants, will help conservationists monitor railway crossing
points to allow the animals to live in peace. "This project is the first of its kind in
Kenya and indeed in Africa," said Dr Benson Okita, head of monitoring at
Save the Elephants. "It seeks to understand how elephant movements are
influenced by a major infrastructural project." Once the railway is complete, a six-lane motorway
is also planned, so understanding what impact the railway has on the animals
will be crucial to limiting the disruption caused by a new road. Tsavo, spread over a western and eastern park,
covers a vast 20 812 square kilometre area of dense bush, about the size of
Slovenia or Djibouti. ‘First of its kind’ Each collared elephant is tracked on a map overlaid
with land use, logging their movements as humans encroach ever closer on
wilderness areas, helping experts to monitor the impact on elephant ranging
patterns. The elephant movement data "will allow the
country to secure space for wildlife as the Kenyan population grows," KWS
deputy director for conservation Patrick Omondi said. Though only elephants are being tagged, the scheme
will help experts monitor the movements of other species as well. "We are only using elephants, as a keystone
species, but that will give an indication on how this effects wildlife
distribution in general," said Sospeter Kiambi, who heads the KWS elephant
tagging programme. With ivory commanding thousands of dollars per kilo
in Asia, conservationists have warned that African elephants could be extinct
in the wild within a generation. More than 30 000 elephants are killed for
their tusks every year. Later this month, Kenya is due to set fire to the
vast majority of its ivory and rhino horn stockpile – some 105 tonnes of ivory,
seven times the size of any ivory stockpile destroyed so far, as well as 1.35
tonnes of rhino horn – in a highly publicised symbolic gesture against poaching
led by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The mass burning is expected to be attended by
international celebrities, actors, conservationists and heads of state. And though Kenya is striving to secure its economic
future with infrastructure investment like the Mombasa-Nairobi road and rail
link, it is hoped that the elephant tracking project will ensure that
development does not come at the cost of wildlife. Environment vs
Economy Kenya launched in 2013 the construction of a
Chinese-funded $13.8bn flagship railway project to dramatically increase trade
and boost the east African country's position as a regional economic
powerhouse. The key transport link is eventually hoped to
extend onwards to landlocked Uganda, and then connect with proposed lines to
Rwanda and South Sudan, a key goods route extending far into the continent. It replaces a colonial-era 19th century railway
built under British rule, a line dubbed the "Lunatic Express" due to
the logistical challenges – including in Tsavo, where man-eating lions hunted the
struggling railway workers. Chugging once-a-day trains on that slow moving line
occasionally hit animals, but posed nothing like the threat the busy, fast new
link may pose. Elephants crossing are being built underneath the
railway – raised bridges allowing animals to move beneath – but concerns
remains especially as to the impact of the planned road. Similar raised bridges will be used when the
railway line cuts through the 117 square kilometre Nairobi national park, where
buffalo, lion and rhino roam just 7km from the bustling high-rise city centre. Construction of the railway in that park –
disturbing animals and with reported gaps made in fencing amid the building –
is reportedly one reason for a spate of lion escapes into the capital suburbs
in recent weeks. The new railway "is perhaps the most important
transport project Kenya has seen since the building of the first railway in the
early 20th century," said Iain Douglas-Hamilton, founder of Save the Elephants. "If research such as this can help influence
the way development is carried out, then we are truly on the path to securing a
future for wildlife into perpetuity." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  