Kaveel Singh, News24SACP (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The South African Communist Party (SACP) in KwaZulu-Natal&nbsp;has suspended local government nomination processes until there is national political intervention, following a deadly shooting at a recent community meeting.Speaking at a press briefing on Thursday, SACP provincial secretary Themba Mthembu said there was an "ocean of anger" from SACP branches throughout the province after two people were killed on Sunday at a community meeting for SACP members in Inchanga, west of Durban. According to police, cars were damaged at the scene, tyres were slashed and windscreens broken when stones were thrown. Two cases of murder and malicious damage to property were opened at Inchanga SAPS.Mthembu said there was a campaign&nbsp;by the ANC to marginalise SACP members. "There is a strong indication of a power struggle around the candidates' nomination process for local government elections. We are saying, if there isn&rsquo;t an intervention from national level in the alliance we will pull out of any processes with the upcoming elections."Fractures in the allianceMthembu conceded that there were fractures in the tripartite alliance, saying the SACP felt the recent shooting was a deliberate tactic to embarrass the SACP provincial chairperson and eThekwini Mayor James Nxumalo.Nxumalo hails from Inchanga. "We are not going to allow criminals to hijack our alliance. We call upon all alliance partners to stop criminals hijacking our structures &ndash; let our structures belong to the people not to the criminals, thugs and commercial racketeers."We would rather be left out of the process and maintain our dignity than be included in the mess. The time-frame for the national intervention will fall on national political structures. We will see how seriously they take this."You can choose a party of criminals or you can allow the people to dictate how we must lead."Mthembu said there had previously been talk of suspending their activities in the local government nomination processes, but that the killings necessitated immediate action. "The SACP is deeply disappointed and depressed about the state of the nomination process in the province. KZN appears to be lagging far behind other provinces in this process."There are a high number of reported cases of violations of the ANC constitution and the guidelines in the nomination process throughout the province."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.