Chelsea Pieterse, The witness Policeman Malcolm Goodwin died after being shot during firearm training at Victor Lamberti shooting range. (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pietermaritzburg - A Durban policeman died after being shot in a “freak accident” at the Pietermaritzburg shooting range on Wednesday morning. The Durban collision unit officer, Malcolm Goodwin, had been attending shooting practice at the range when a colleague accidentally shot him in the chest. ER24 advanced life paramedic Tristan Manning said he was called to respond to an incident of an injured policeman and upon arriving at the range, found he knew the wounded officer. Manning said Goodwin was unconscious and in a critical condition and Manning worked quickly to stabilise him before rushing him to St Anne’s Hospital. Goodwin later died while in theatre. “He was a very well-known and well respected policeman,” said Manning. KZN police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said the shooting occurred at 10 am yesterday. “A case of culpable homicide will be investigated by detectives at Mountain Rise. We are not in a position to comment further at this early stage of the investigation,” said Naicker. A close friend and colleague of Goodwin who could not be named said Goodwin was “a very good guy and an all rounder”. “He was what a policeman should be,” said the colleague. “We go on courses to learn how to survive the outside world but we never expect something like this to happen,” said the colleague. Rescue Care director Garrith Jamieson, a long time friend of Goodwin’s, said yesterday that he had been shocked to hear of Goodwin’s sudden death. “It can only be described as a freak accident,” said Jamieson. “He was one of the most honest law enforcers I had ever come across and always put 100% into his job. “He was an amazing person and an excellent policeman. He was completely dedicated to the force. “Malcolm was the perfect example of what a policeman should be,” said Jamieson.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  