Lizeka Tandwa, News24Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo (Picture: AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories East London &ndash; The Congress of Traditional Leaders of SA (Contralesa) in the Eastern Cape says it will not forgive the ANC should anything bad happen to Abathembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo while he was incarcerated.Contralesa chairperson, Chief Nkosi Nonkonyana, said the congress was again asking President Jacob Zuma to pardon Dalindyebo. &ldquo;Contralesa has issued a reminder to the office of the president as his organisation does not want... to have [the] stigma of having incarcerated a reigning king and son of late King Sabata Dalindyebo that was ill-treated by Transkei regime and died in exile,&rdquo; he said.King Sabata was forced into exile after he denounced the Bantu authorities system and fell out of favour with the former Transkei leader Kaiser Mathanzima and the apartheid government.Nonkonyana said he was angry over reports that Dalindyebo was living in luxury while in an East London prison. He said a Contralesa delegation went to prison on Friday and found that this was not true.Dalindyebo was admitted to St Dominic's Hospital in East London on January 3 after embarking on a hunger strike. &nbsp;On December 31, he had handed himself over at the Mthatha Correctional Centre after unsuccessfully trying several legal avenues to avoid jail.&nbsp;He was then moved to the East London Maximum Correctional Centre.&nbsp;Dalindyebo is serving a 12-year sentence.&nbsp;In 2009, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison for culpable homicide, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, arson, and kidnapping.He was granted bail pending the outcome of his appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA).In October last year, the SCA set aside his culpable homicide conviction and reduced his sentence to 12 years.On December 2, the Constitutional Court dismissed Dalindyebo&rsquo;s appeal against his sentence.The charges all related Dalindyebo's mistreatment of his subjects between 1995 and 1996.&nbsp; Dalindyebo set fire to the houses of three tenants to evict them because he believed they had breached tribal rules. He publicly assaulted three young men for crimes they had allegedly committed. Dalindyebo's subjects beat to death a fourth man, Saziso Wafa, who they had suspected of having been party to the alleged crimes. They allegedly did this on the king's instructions. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.