Johannesburg - After four days in hospital following a “hit
and run” incident, actor Thapelo Mokoena has taken to social media to recount
what happened to him. On Saturday morning, Mokoena posted on his Facebook
account that he had been struck by what bystanders described as a red Audi
while he was jogging in Vanderbijlpark, south of Johannesburg on Tuesday night. "I started my run and it's was going well as
usual," Mokoena wrote. He had started jogging at 19:45. "I reached my 5km mark and started to make my way
back. I keep going and just before I reach 7km it all ended. What happened?? "The next thing I know I wake up on the side of the
road bleeding everywhere (from my head, my arms & my legs)." Mokoena said when he came to, he saw a man standing above
him who told him that he was badly hurt and had called an ambulance to come and
attend to him. The man was later joined by his wife but a disoriented Mokoena
kept shouting at the man to either take him to his wife and son or leave him to
walk there himself. Eventually the couple drove Mokoena to the house where
his family was, about 2.5km from the scene of the accident, he said. Mokoena, his family and the couple then made their way to
hospital. Hit and run Mokoena further writes that according to two men who were
collecting waste in the area at the time of the incident, the Audi was
initially travelling in the fast lane, it then moved to the slow lane, hit
Mokoena, moved back onto the fast lane and drove off. "Literally HIT & RUN!," Mokoena wrote. "I was unconscious for 15 to 20 minutes on the road
and I miraculously took a huge gasp of air and went manic. According to the 2
street guys, the driver of the vehicle and his passenger where white
males," he added. Later that night he said he woke up pain only to find
himself in a hospital bed. "I have open wound in my head and I am being
stitched, open wounds on my back, my arms and the back of my legs and a
fractured ankle so I can't walk." IMokoena said
he was yet to open a case at the police station because he was still recovering
from his injuries. "The investigators can only start when I have lifted
myself from this bed and gone to the police station to file my case, I still
have no idea who the drivers of the red Audi are/were," he said. Mokoena and his family had planned to return to their
home in Johannesburg on Wednesday and prepare for their trip to Rustenburg,
North West to celebrate the ANC's 104th anniversary.