Jenna Etheridge, News24Keith Conroy. (Picture via Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; An elderly man charged with illegally possessing a cache of firearms and ammunition has nothing to hide, his lawyer Carlo Viljoen said on Friday. Keith Conroy, 70, appeared in the Goodwood Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Friday morning and was granted R3 000 bail, Viljoen told News24 after the appearance."We were asking for R500 bail. He has been a productive member of society for the last 25 years. He teaches people self-defence classes."Viljoen said his client was a sports shooter and had the necessary, legal equipment, like any other person with a hobby.A tip-off led officers attached to the provincial detective unit to a flat behind a house in Vryburger Street, Bothasig, on December 18.Two guns, two silencers, a telescope, numerous magazines and a "huge amount" of ammunition for various calibre firearms - including R1 and R5 rifles, 9mm and .45 handguns - were found.Military gear, training equipment, reloading equipment, Nazi flags and memorabilia were also seized. At the time, police said they had identified a person of interest, but that he had not yet been apprehended.Western Cape police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut, said Conroy was arrested on Thursday.He handed himself over to police in Cape Town. Viljoen said his client had not known police were looking for him."He was somewhere in Transvaal [Gauteng] on a farm when someone he knew phoned to say the police were looking for him. As soon as he heard that, he handed himself over."Traut said the man faced charges of unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. He had also been charged for failing to safeguard his licensed firearm after it was found in his car without supervision.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.