Karabo Ngoepe, News24Murdered businessman Wandile Bozwana. (NorthWestZA, Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - Police have made a breakthrough in the murder of North West businessman Wandile Bozwana following the arrest of a prominent businessman believed to be the mastermind behind the hit.Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi told News24 that &ldquo;a person of interest&rdquo; was brought to them on Friday. He said while the man was not initially wanted in connection with the murder, investigations revealed he had a hand in the crime.&ldquo;It is true that he is in custody but he is not arrested on the Bozwana case, he is arrested on other serious cases that police are investigating. [We have however] linked [him] to the murder of Bozwana,&rdquo; said Mulaudzi.&nbsp;Bozwana died in hospital after being ambushed in what is believed to be a hit while he was a passenger in a yellow Renault Clio in October 2015.Police said the Clio driven by Bozwana&rsquo;s female companion was stationary at the traffic light on the N1 Garsfontein off-ramp when a BMW M3 pulled up next to them. A man jumped out and started pumping a hail of bullets at the businessman. The man jumped back into the BMW, which sped off.The 43-year-old Bozwana was hit by at least nine bullets. His companion, who was hit by two, survived the attack.Two men were arrested last year in connection with the murder. When arrested, the men were found in possession of semi-automatic and automatic rifles as well as ammunition. They were also charged for being in possession of a suspected stolen vehicle.Additionally, they were found in possession of jammers and were charged for contravening the Electronic Communications Act, which makes the possession of the unlicensed devices illegal. They faced charges of murder, attempted murder, and possession of a stolen vehicle.They appeared in court in December where the matter was postponed to February 17 for further investigation.A source close to the investigation told News24 that the businessman allegedly acquired the services of the gunman and orchestrated the hit.&ldquo;It is not known why but all that will be revealed when he appears in court on Tuesday,&rdquo; said the source. Bozwana&rsquo;s brother, Benedict said the family was delighted that progress was being made regarding the case. He said he was not sure if the man was known to the family. &ldquo;That businessman will appear in court and I&rsquo;m going to be there and look at him. I know most of Wandile&rsquo;s friends but once I have seen him, I will be able to say he is known to the family or not,&rdquo; he said. The man is expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Tuesday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.