Principal of Amangwane High School in Bergville, Nhlanhla Dube (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - On Monday, News24 published a story about a principal in KwaZulu-Natal who was taking rural teaching methods to new heights.- Read more: Granny, 66, gets matric certificate so she can start cr&egrave;chePrincipal Nhlanhla Dube is head of Amangwane High School in Bergville, in the foothills of the Drakensberg mountains.In a bid to produce quality matriculants and more university passes, Dube came up with a programme called the 6-4-6 turnaround strategy. Pupils attend school from 06:00 to 14:00, take a break until 16:00, then go back to school until 18:00.&nbsp;He overcame a tiny government subsidy, a serial rapist in the community, a scarcity of textbooks and no laboratory to achieve a 92% matric pass rate in 2015. Two of his matriculants were top achievers, with Lindokuhle Mazibuko receiving 9 distinctions, and his friend Samukelo Nxumalo 7.News24 users praised the Dube's methods on Facebook, commending his passion to improve the lives of his pupils.'The nation salutes you'"What a brilliant example of dedication and passion for his job! MR Dube, you are what education needs in this country, not fatcats in offices. You put the education department to shame. Long may you live for your learners. I salute you," said Elizabeth Avoni."Well done Mr Dube, I salute you. A true leader. Congrats to the guys with distinctions... Mr Dube for Minister. But on the other hand if he can achieve in a school maybe I will vote him in for President. Mr Dube YOU ROCK," said Ellen Schroeder."Mr Dube Sir, you put everyone in this sector who make excuses for failing our children [to shame]. Wake up Africa this is the way this country will succeed," said Thula Ndlovu.One user had attended Dube&rsquo;s school, and gushed over her former principal&rsquo;s work ethic."As a former student in this school and under your management, I experienced your passion first hand and really admire you personally and professionally," said Nzima KaMgabh&rsquo;wamafu Mazibuko. 'Some good news'"Well done Mr Dube. But also, super, super well done to the kids in this school. These are seriously long days for these poor kids, but they do it and persevere, and have the results to prove it. My heart goes out to them having to be at school from 6h00 until 20h00. With only a 2 hour break in the afternoon. I wish all of you the best. Your hard work will pay off one day," said Pauline Moulder Du Toit."The English language with its mere million-odd words are utterly incapable of describing the praise this man deserves. Not forgetting for a single moment the staff, the students and their parents. A true leader raises other leaders and it is exactly what he did," said Coert Welman.Some readers were grateful for a good news story, given the drama that has dominated front pages of newspapers so far this year."Finally some good news to read this year! Well done to Mr Dube and his students. As a nation, sir, we salute you," said Stephen Paine."Well done to Mr Dube, but more to News24 for actually reporting on news and not inciting nonsense in our country," said Vishal Dunpath.- Read the full story: How a principal beat the blackboard jungle &ndash; and taught SA a lesson24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.