Naledi Shange, News24 Jacob Zuma. (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – President Jacob Zuma wished police officials well on National Police Day on Wednesday, saying their dedication to the country was appreciated. This comes as suspended police commissioner Riah Phiyega faces an inquiry, the killings of police officers continues, and cases have emerged of officers using excessive force. The day commemorates the date on which the SAPS Act 1995 was promulgated. "Our police officers work tirelessly, at times facing great danger and threats to their lives, to maintain public order and a crime free society. We appreciate the sacrifices and urge all in our country to support the police in their work," Zuma said in a statement. He paid tribute to those officers killed on duty. One police officer was going to be laid to rest in Musgrave, Durban, later on Wednesday. A colleague accidentally shot Sergeant Malcolm Goodwin in the chest during a training exercise at a Pietermaritzburg shooting range last week. In Limpopo, Warrant Officer Boshego Joel Seloga was killed while trying to arrest a man at a funeral in Madibeng village, near Jane Furse, on Saturday. He was in plain clothes and mourners thought he and his colleagues had been involved in killing the man they were burying. Phiyega was suspended in October last year, pending an inquiry into her fitness to hold office. The Farlam Commission, which investigated the August 2012 Marikana shooting, recommended she face an inquiry. In November, acting national commissioner Lieutenant General Nobubele Mbekela and police spokesperson Lieutenant General Solomon Makgale were suspended for declaring support for Phiyega. They were currently challenging the Labour Court ruling that declared their suspensions lawful. In November last year, police officers shot dead alleged robber Khulekani Mpanza as he lay unarmed and wounded on a pavement in Krugersdorp, after he shot at a police van. Four police officers had been charged with his murder. Their case was postponed to February 25. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  