Naledi Shange, News24Marius Fransman. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo&rsquo;s office on Friday dismissed allegations by the EFF that he tried to quash the sexual harassment claims against ANC Western Cape chairperson Marius Fransman. "That is an absolute lie," his spokesperson, Brian Setswambung, said."What the premier simply did was to enquire about the incident. After enquiring, he was satisfied with the information received and said the law should take its course."In a statement, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi claimed Mahumapelo was trying to use his power as premier to convince the province&rsquo;s police commissioner to suppress the case.The complaint against Fransman was laid in Rustenburg on Friday, where the ANC is holding its 104th birthday celebrations this weekend.North West police spokesperson Colonel Sabata Mokgwabone said a case had been opened and was under investigation. No arrest had been made."I can't divulge what the case is. We will allow the investigations to continue and only once they are concluded can we determine if a person will be charged," he said.Setswambung said Muhampelo was a law-abiding citizen and the EFF&rsquo;s claim was a political ploy.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa earlier told reporters that Fransman had explained to the party what had happened. The party was aware it was only his side of the story. Kodwa called for the law to take its course.&nbsp;The Western Cape ANC said it would meet on Saturday to discuss the allegations. Spokesperson Yonela Diko said they would issue a statement once the party&rsquo;s officials had met. The EFF said it would see this case to the end. "Society must be defended and exfoliated from all forms of sexual harassment," Ndlozi said. The EFF had joined the DA in calling for Fransman's suspension.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.