Amanda Khoza, News24Kueben, Kevin and Muniammy Chetty. (Picture: Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Yasiin Bey, formerly known as Mos Def, has made headlines all over the world after he was arrested in South Africa on January 14. We talk you through the progression of events since he tried to leave the country on January 9.WATCHDurban &ndash; A KwaZulu-Natal man wants answers from home affairs after it incorrectly stated on his mother's death certificate that she was divorced. "I just want home affairs to fix it," said Kevin Chetty, 38, from Chatsworth, Durban.He said his parents Muniamma and Munsamy Chetty had married in 1975.His father died in 1995 and his mother had been living with him when she died last year.&ldquo;She never got sick, but late last year she got ill and doctors said she had anxiety and a sugar problem."On Saturday December 5, Chetty&rsquo;s mother went to bed early, around 20:30. Around 23:30 she complained about her chest. She asked him who would take care of him when she was gone.Chetty was suffering from renal failure and had to go for dialysis three times a week."You made me strong, brave and wise," he told her.Chetty said his mother had then called out his late father&rsquo;s name."She cried for my father Munsamy, the God we believe in Hanuman and Sai Baba. She also called my brother's name Kueben."Chetty said he wiped his mother&rsquo;s face as her mouth began to froth. His brother arrived around midnight and they called an ambulance and sat with her.He was told his mother had suffered a heart attack. She was cremated on December 7.When his brother went to collect the death certificate the following day, he was shocked that it stated that his mother was divorced. When they went to home affairs to rectify it, they were asked if they were sure she was married.Chetty said home affairs promised to investigate, but nothing was done.It was not the first time home affairs had made a mistake on his mother&rsquo;s documentation."When she first received her book of life [ID book], it read that she was a male. Then we applied for another ID book, it came back without a barcode. In 1994, when she got a new one so that she could vote, everything was rectified."Home affairs spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete promised to investigate the matter.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.