Goodluck Jonathan (File: AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Abuja - Former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan evaded questions involving the ongoing investigation into the purchasing of arms by his administration, during an interview on Wednesday in Geneva, Nigerian publication PM News has reported.Speaking at the Geneva Press Club, Jonathan said he would have "loved" to speak on the issue, but had to follow Nigerian laws which stipulate that commentary should not be made about cases that are currently going through the court system.Jonathan then took to his Twitter page to shed some light on the issue."My voice will certainly be heard at the appropriate time regarding the alleged arms funds mismanagement. I would not want to interfere with the proceedings by the judicial system that my administration worked tirelessly to strengthen,"&nbsp;Jonathan tweeted.My voice will certainly be heard at the appropriate time regarding the alleged arms funds mismanagement&mdash; Goodluck E. Jonathan (@GEJonathan) January 27, 2016I would not want to interfere with the proceeding by the judicial system that my administration worked tirelessly to strengthenJonathan went on further to say: "My post-presidential focus is advancing democracy and good governance in Africa. If we do not spend billions to educate Africa's youths today, we will spend it fighting insecurity tomorrow."If we do not spend billions to educate Africa's youths today, we will spend it fighting insecurity tomorrow&mdash; Goodluck E. Jonathan (@GEJonathan) January 27, 2016Jonathan has previously been implicated in former National Security Adviser Sambo Dasuki's corrupt dealings regarding the arms procurement. Dasuki was arrested last year for allegedly stealing more than $2bn meant to purchase weapons for the military to fight the Boko Haram insurgency. Dasuki's lawyer, Ahmed Raji, however, recently said that Dasuki carried out instructions given by Jonathan during his administration. President Muhammadu Buhari has also given commentary on the incident, claiming that Jonathan will face the law should he be found guilty of corruption. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.