Amanda Khoza, News24Amangwane High School pupils Lindokuhle Mazibuko, 18 and his best friend Samukelo Nxumalo, 17, received 16 distinctions between the two of them. (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The two bright KwaZulu-Natal boys whose hunger for a better life touched News24 readers, started their new life on Wednesday.The matriculants arrived in the Western Cape on Wednesday morning and headed straight to Stellenbosch University, where they have both registered to further their studies.News24 reported that Lindokuhle Mazibuko, 18, got nine distinctions, and his best friend, Samukelo Nxumalo, 17, got seven in the 2015 matric exams, which they wrote at their quintile two school in Oliviershoek, Bergville. The pair met in Grade R. Mazibuko has been accepted to study medicine. He is planning to specialise in neurology and, once he has qualified, return to his hometown and open a clinic where the poor could receive free treatment.Nxumalo has been accepted to study earth science. He wants to specialise in hydrology.&nbsp; News24 reported at the time that it was the boy's principal who pushed them to work harder.- Read more: How a principal beat the blackboard jungle and taught SA a lessonIn a bid to produce quality matriculants, the 52-year-old principal developed a 6-4-6 turnaround strategy for his matrics. Pupils were in class from 06:00 until 14:00, then took a break until 16:00, when they attended class until 18:00.Despite the enormous challenges he faced, and after using his own money to fix and maintain his school, Dube managed to get a 92% matric pass rate in 2015.The story touched many readers including Durban resident, Peter Harvey, who drove all the way to Bergville to meet the boys after reading the story.Harvey, 71, promised to assist the boys with whatever they needed. And he kept his promise.On Tuesday he booked the boys into a Bed and Breakfast in Durban where they spent the night so that they could be closer to King Shaka International Airport. Their flight was at 07:45.Gran&rsquo;s adviceMazibuko said his grandmother, Nokuthula Mazibuko, 65, packed his suitcase for him on Monday.Giving him advice, she told him to behave himself when he got to university.&ldquo;She told me that she won&rsquo;t be around anymore and everything was now in my hands.&rdquo;Mazibuko said his granny also gave him a bottle of water that was prayed over and he should drink it whenever he was not feeling well.&ldquo;I already miss them,&rdquo; he said.Mazibuko said they arrived in Cape Town at around 12:00, ate and took taxis to their different campuses.Mazibuko said he had already registered online and he was ready to study hard.&ldquo;I want to thank everyone who believed in us. We will not disappoint you. I will continue to work hard. This experience has shown me that God is really watching over me.&rdquo;GratefulNxumalo said it was his first time on a plane.&ldquo;I only slept at around 02:00 in the morning because I was so excited.&rdquo;He said the flight was interesting.Nxumalo told News24 that he received a bursary from the university and that he was also ready to start the year.&ldquo;I want to thank Peter and all the readers who have made my dream come true. I pray that God blesses Peter for what he has done, there are very few people like him in this world,&rdquo; said Nxumalo.The boys are expected to begin their academic year on February 1.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.