Amanda Khoza, News24 Principal of Amangwane High School in Bergville, Nhlanhla Dube (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Two News24 users are donating science laboratory equipment to Amangwane High School in Bergville, KwaZulu-Natal.Despite the hardships its pupils face and the lack of resources, the school made the most out of its tiny government subsidy and produced a 92% matric pass rate last year. Two of them started studying at Stellenbosch University this week. Principal Nhlanhla Dube used his own salary to fix what was broken at the school and imposed a demanding schedule on his matrics, called the 6-4-6 turnaround strategy. Pupils attended school from 06:00 until 14:00. They had a two-hour break until 16:00, when they had to be back in class until 18:00.Dr Rikus Kloppers, a senior crop services manager at Pannar Seed, was moved by Dube&rsquo;s leadership and can-do attitude.As a researcher, Kloppers pursued a career in plant pathology due to the inspiration of his own science teachers.&ldquo;He made me think of the quote &lsquo;it is better to walk the road than curse it&rsquo; and we need more of this in South Africa,&rdquo; he said.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Kloppers was saddened by the fact that the school&rsquo;s science and physics pupils had limited equipment. He asked his colleagues in Greytown to donate stock from their biotechnology, analytical and quality laboratories. They would deliver the equipment to the school on Wednesday.The list included lab coats, safety glasses, transfer pipettes, glass test tubes, test tube rack, dishes, beakers, flasks and measuring cylinders. (Amanda Khoza, News24)Another user, Mark Ross said he was donating the chemistry equipment he said was gathering dust in his garage.Dube said offers of help continued to pour in. People had called him to donate textbooks, had offered to help build a science laboratory, and wanted to send money to refurbish the school.&ldquo;The equipment is going to help them very much. Everything is going to help me produce brighter pupils,&rdquo; he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.