Johannesburg – The family of UJ student Palesa Madiba whose remains were discovered three years after she went missing said they were happy with how the police were handling the investigation. Palesa Madiba’s cousin Thabiso Tsoledi said initially there was some dissatisfaction with how the police handled the investigation, but they were now satisfied. "Up front, we had quite a bit of dissatisfaction with the way the case was handled, but since the recent discovery of her remains, police have done a thorough job,” he told News24. Tsoledi said police gave the family regular updates on their investigation. "They are doing their investigations and they have pleaded with us to let them do their job and be patient. That is exactly what we have done as a family. The one common thing for us and the police, more so for them to redeem themselves, is for justice to be served,” he said. Tsoledi was reported to have visited several mortuaries to indentify Madiba’s body during the three years she was missing. All of those leads turned out to be false.Tsoledi told journalists that he will never forget how strong his cousin was. "I spent a lot of time with Palesa. She was my sister. She grew up with me. She was a strong woman and also in contrast a shy and very respectful woman. She would come in the house after her curfew and cry before anything the elders could say. "She spoke of a bright future for herself... she saw it. Unfortunately what has happened has happened. She will be at peace once laid to rest... We are African. Wherever it is she was buried was not a comfortable place and she couldn't be at peace there,” said an emotional Tsoledi. A funeral will be held at the University of Johannesburg’s Soweto campus from 09:00 till 12:00 on Saturday before a private burial. She disappeared in August 2013. ‎She had spent the weekend at a friend's house in Phiri and was expected home in Diepkloof on the Monday evening. She was found on December 16 when police received an anonymous tip-off. Her body was buried in the backyard of her friend’s home in Phiri, where she was last seen.