Dumisani.Zondi PHOTO: IAN CARBUTT Crowned Cranes take flight over a dry Albert Falls Dam. Albert Falls levels stand at 37,87% - Midmar is at 47,22%. The dam levels in the province are expected to drop a further three percent by next month. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ONE of the major bulk water suppliers in KwaZulu-Natal said it is concerned with the amount of rainfall received in the Mgeni system catchments. Despite recent rains in the province, Umgeni Water officials warn that rainfall is still below a 20-year average. Spokesperson Shami Harichunder said officials at the bulk water supplier are concerned about dam levels. The Mgeni system comprises Midmar Dam, Spring Grove Dam and Mearns Dam as part of the upper Mgeni­. In the lower Mgeni there are Albert Falls Dam, Nagle Dam and Inanda Dam. The upper and lower Mgeni supplies water to most of eThekwini, uMgungundlovu­ District, Msunduzi (Pietermaritzburg) and north of Ugu District — meaning that most of Durban­, all of Pietermaritzburg, all of uMgungundlovu and parts of Ugu (Scottburgh and surrounds) receive water from the Mgeni system. The SA Weather Service had previously said the country experienced its lowest annual total rainfall in 112 years last year. Hazelmere Dam, one of the main suppliers of bulk water in northern eThekwini, has thus far had 194,9 mm of rain, while the average is 318,2 mm. Midmar Dam managed 108,5 mm, while the average is ordinarily at 328,2 mm. “The below-average rainfall in the last quarter of 2015 firmly confirms the effects of the El Niño weather phenomenon. “The figures illustrate that the rainfall received at all 12 dam sites from October to December, 2015 is below the 20-year average, and in some instances half or less than half of the 20-year average,” Harichunder said. If good rainfall is not received in the coming weeks, if the current high temperatures continue and if water demand and usage continue at the present rate, the level of dams in the Umgeni Water operational area - including Midmar - will continue to fall at a faster rate.” It is estimated that the level of Midmar Dam is dropping by three percent per month and that of Albert Falls by four percent per month. According to Harichunder, figures for the main dams as of last Thursday included Mearns at 85,83%, Spring Grove at 72,58%, Midmar at 47,22% (the lowest it has been in several years despite water currently being transferred from Mearns), Nagle at 88,61%, Albert Falls at 37,87% and Inanda at 80,72% Meanwhile in the Northern Cape, rains brought relief to farmers, the ­province’s agriculture department said. Department spokesperson Phemelo Manankong said the rains will “ease the burden on our farmers”. - News24.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  