Cape Town – A brick-wielding man attacked a Durbanville
schoolteacher on his bicycle at the weekend and ran off with his cellphone. The
attack has left his family in shock. Pieter Swart, 57, was cycling home near Fisantekraal on
Sunday morning when a man stuck a stick through his wheel spokes, his brother
JC Swart said on Tuesday. A device on his bike showed he had been travelling about
40km/h at the time. He fell to the ground and the man hit him in the face with a
brick, before running off with his cellphone. The bicycle was left behind. Brutality His son Wihan said in a statement that Pieter broke seven
ribs, his collarbone and his shoulder as a result of the fall. The blow to his
face broke both cheekbones, his nose and eye sockets. "The brutality of the incident got to me," JC
Swart said with a sigh. "I was a little bit sad that people don’t have
respect for the life of others." "It is also a big shock for our 85-year-old mother. She
can’t understand the brutality." JC Swart is the principal of Laerskool Durbanville, where
his brother teaches technology. He visited him in ICU and said he was not yet stable. At
times he recognised faces, but also had moments of confusion. According to a family statement, doctors were confident that
the bleeding and swelling in his brain and right lung would not leave permanent
damage. "He’s not going to be here for at least this term and
he plays a big part in my school," said JC Swart, explaining that his
brother helped with fundraising, sponsorships and general maintenance. Case of robbery Western Cape police confirmed that a case of robbery had
been opened at Durbanville police station on Sunday. But JC Swart said he was disillusioned by the police
reaction and claimed officers initially wanted his brother to open a case. He felt the police should be investigating a case of
attempted murder. He visited the crime scene on Sunday evening and found the
stick and brick still lying there. He put both items in his car. "It is a shame because you can’t generalise and there
are a lot of good relations between all nationalities and cultural groups. We
have to pray for our country." Provincial police spokesperson FC van Wyk said no one had
been arrested and the investigation continued.