Karabo Ngoepe, News24The post that landed Mkongi in trouble. (Screengrab from Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The Democratic Alliance says it will be taking ANC MP Bongani Mkongi to the Ethics Committee over his statements regarding the &lsquo;Zuma Must Fall&rsquo; billboard in the Cape Town CBD.&ldquo;The DA is deeply disturbed and disgusted by ANC MP, Bongani Mkongi's calls for the 'Zuma Must Fall' billboard in Cape Town, as well as the building it is on and its occupants, to be burnt down,&rdquo; Chief Whip John Steenhuisen said on Saturday.&ldquo;I will write to the Joint Committee on Ethics and Members' Interests and request that it investigates Mkongi's remarks and conduct as a matter of urgency.&rdquo;The large 'Zuma Must Fall' sign was erected in Cape Town on Friday morning. It hugged one side of a block of flats at the top of Long Street, on the corner of Kloof and Buitensingel streets.The poster had tongues wagging on Friday with many trying to figure out who was responsible for it. ANC supporters removed the poster on Saturday afternoon.Mkongi made the remarks on his Facebook page. In the post, he said: "Join the ANC in Cape Town today at 14h00 to burn down the billboard saying 'ZumaMustFall'. The billboard must not be lifted down, but, burnt down."One person commented: "We can't burn it down as it is pasted against an apartment block, people inside the apartment will burn to death. We can remove it though."Mkongi responded with: "They must burn to death as it is life for them to keep it that way."Steenhuisen said Mkongi's remarks not only violated the country's constitutional and reconciliatory principles, but were tantamount to hate speech and incitement to violence, and require thorough investigation.&ldquo;During this time of heated public debate, South Africans, particularly its Members of Parliament who are expected to lead national discourse, need to engage one another in a manner that leads to solutions not exacerbating incitements of violence such as arson. &nbsp;&ldquo;The DA remains committed to our nations democratic principles and the eradication of racism, and will do everything in our power to ensure transgressors and hatemongers are held to account,&rdquo; said Steenhuisen. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.