Karabo Ngoepe, News24A poster at the memorial service of slain businessman Wandile Bozwana. Picture: Tebogo Letsie/City Press Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria -&nbsp;The family of North West businessman Wandile Bozwana believes the man arrested in connection with his murder is taking the fall for someone else. Family spokesperson and brother, Benedict Bozwana, told News24 he could not understand how Wandile was standing in the way of the business that was supposed to be going in the direction of the man believed to be the mastermind behind the hit."I don&rsquo;t know or understand how Wandile was blocking businesses that this man was trying to get. He is a club owner in Pretoria and Wandile was doing business in the North West and Northern Cape," said Benedict. The brother said he believed the man was put up to take the fall for someone else. "He has just been sent to take the rap for someone else. It just doesn&rsquo;t make sense how Wandile was blocking his tenders."The Sunday Times reported over the weekend that the nightclub owner allegedly commissioned the hit, as Bozwana was standing in the way of him benefiting from state tenders."I can see he is trying to delay the investigation. I don&rsquo;t see how Wandile was blocking his business," Benedict said.A hand in the crimeThe businessman handed himself over to police last week and was linked to the Bozwana murder. Hawks spokesperson, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, told News24 that the man was not initially wanted in connection with the murder, but investigations had revealed he had a hand in the crime.He appeared in the Pretoria Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Wednesday where he was officially charged with the murder of Bozwana and the attempted murder of Mpho Baloyi. Bozwana died in hospital after being ambushed in what is believed to be a hit while he was a passenger in a yellow Renault Clio in October.Police said the Clio, driven by Bozwana&rsquo;s female companion, was stationary at a traffic light on the N1 Garsfontein off-ramp when a BMW M3 pulled up next to them. A man jumped out and pumped a hail of bullets at the businessman. The 43-year-old Bozwana was hit by at least nine bullets. His companion, who was hit twice, survived the attack.Two men were arrested last year in connection with the murder. When arrested, the men were found in possession of semi-automatic and automatic rifles as well as ammunition. They appeared in court in December where the matter was postponed to February 17 for further investigation. The businessman will appear with them on the day.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.