(Screengrab, eNCA) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Last November, 27-year-old Carl Schoombie was dragged from an Uber taxi and beaten to death. His brother Lee joined us in studio and recounts the events of that night. Watch. WATCHCape Town - Table View police are still investigating a case of assault six months later after a Cape Town man was attacked by three unknown men on a late June night, despite CCTV footage showing the assailants' faces."Footage was sought and analysed in a bid to identify the suspects," Lieutenant Colonel Andr&egrave; Traut told News24 on Friday."In addition, a number of premises were visited with the aim of tracing and arresting the perpetrators. However, none of these attempts yielded positive results."According to eNCA, Sonwabile Jakuja was attacked in Cape Town on June 2015 by three unknown assailants in the Table View area. They initially stopped in front of his car in the early hours of the morning, before getting out, and proceeding to punch, kick and beat him.He was left injured and unconscious on the side of the road, and would spend seven days in ICU.Jakuja has been waiting for more than six months for police to make a breakthrough in the case, despite CCTV footage showing the attackers&rsquo; faces.In the interview with eNCA, Jakuta said he felt let down by the police, and believes the attack was racially motivated."In Cape Town, if you're a black person there is nothing that can be done [for you]," he claimed. No arrestsA case has been opened at Table View police station. No arrests have been made yet."The complainant was updated frequently and was engaged by the investigating officer and station commander on the&nbsp;developments of the case," Traut continued.A call has been made for anyone who knows the identity of the individuals to take the information to the police. Anyone with information has been asked to contact Table View SAPS on 021&nbsp;521 3313 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111.Watch the eNCA interview here.Sonwabile Jakuja talking to eNCA at the intersection where the attack occurred. (Screengrab, eNCA)Sonwabile Jakuja talking to eNCA at the intersection where the attack occurred. (Screengrab, eNCA)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.