News24 Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - A former South African National Defence Force
soldier facing 23 counts relating to illegal hunting was in full uniform and
armed with a 303 rifle when rangers shot him while he was poaching in the
Kruger National Park five years ago, a court in Mpumalanga has heard. The former soldier, Leonard Buti Mashego, appeared alongside
his co-accused, Michael Sithole, in the Nelspruit Regional Court on Thursday
afternoon. The two accused were arrested after a shoot-out involving
rangers in the Bristol area of the Kruger on September 25, 2010. The two face 23 counts, among them killing and dehorning six
rhinos, illegal activities in the game reserve, carrying a restricted activity
involving a threatened species, possession of illegal firearms and ammunition
and failing to report a stolen firearm. The court heard all the six rhinos were shot and dehorned
separately, on June 10, 2010, September 22, 2010, and September 25, 2010. "I was off duty and left home in Pienaar on the
afternoon in September 24, 2010, to go look for my lost cattle at Siphelanyane.
After I asked some shepherds in the veld, they said they last saw them headed
towards the Kruger fence, and I decided to go look for them there,"
Mashego told the court. Mashego said he carried his licensed 303 hunting rifle, live
ammunition and his ID book. "At dawn, while I was still searching, I was shot at by
people I did not see. A bullet hit me on my left shoulder and exited in front
and I fell down and fainted. I only woke up a short while later to find myself
surrounded by many rangers," he said. He said he first discovered when he appeared in the White
River periodical court that he was shot after being accused of killing and
dehorning rhinos in the Kruger. Sithole, who claimed he was a herbalist, testified that he
was digging for muthi used for cleaning the stomach when the rangers arrested
him on September 25, 2010. "It was around 04:45. I just had started digging for
muthi at about 800 metres from the Kruger fence. The rangers, who were standing
outside the fence on a railway line whistled and called me. When I went to
them, they told me to lie down and arrested me," he said. He said a rifle was then planted next to him by the rangers
and photos of him were then taken. "I do not know my co-accused. I live in Clau Clau and
it is far away from Pienaar where he lives. I only saw him during our first
appearance in court," said Sithole. State prosecutor Isbet Erwee told Sithole that a ranger
testified he was arrested at the same place as his co-accused, Mashego. A photo
of him lying down with a rifle next to him was shown to him in court. "The photographer also testified he took the photos of
you and that the rifle was right next to where you lay. Even your co-accused
was in full uniform when he was shot close to where you claimed you were
digging for muthi," Erwee said. Erwee said both firearms found on the two accused were
linked to the hunting incidents on June 10, September 22 and September 25,
2010. "Two freshly cut horns and knives were found during
your arrests. Knives were used to dehorn the rhinos and the method used was
similar in all the incidents, which an expert described was a special kind of
art. "The two firearms found in your possessions were linked
to the shootings in all the scenes and many used rounds were found," said
Erwee. Magistrate Andre Geldenhuys postponed the case to February 5
for the trial to continue. Both Mashego and Sithole are out on bail. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  