Lauren KlaasenFacebook is expanding its mobile device footprint. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - People on social media have shown abuse victim Yolo Pityana tremendous support after she posted pictures of bruises inflicted by her husband on Christmas Day."This is how I spend my Christmas of 2016. In pain and hurt," she wrote in her post.&nbsp;Piyana took to Facebook on Sunday evening and exposed her husband, along with her scars, to the public.The post read: "I have been beaten, cheated on and abused for the past two years by my husband. Women, love does not hurt and only God will complete you."The post went viral on Facebook, with more than 54 000 shares, as well as on Twitter, where many used the hashtag #YoloPityana to express their admiration at her bravery for speaking up against abuse.Her words to women were, "love like you never been hurt before, but most of all love yourself more, not to stay longer than the first time. Leave leave leave".The images revealed various bruises along her back, shoulders and face, while another image shared showed her in a neck brace.Pityana did not respond to inquiries for comment.&nbsp; Pityana recently posted a status thanking everyone who supported her, as well as those who felt indifferent about her post.&nbsp;Furthermore, Pityana's story received lots of support on Twitter while encouraging other women to take a stand against abuse.&nbsp;4. If you are in abusive relationship, please find the courage to leave. Please let Yolo Pityana's courage, motivate you to leave.&mdash; ThiweOfficial (@Thiwe) December 26, 20164. If you are in abusive relationship, please find the courage to leave. Please let Yolo Pityana's courage, motivate you to leave. Good night SA. Let's hope that we will wake up in the morning and there'll be justice for #YoloPityana and many other abused women.... #YoloPityana is a brave woman for sharing her abusive and horrific experience. Love doesn't hurt. Strength to Yolo ?? pic.twitter.com/M8HnktMiB9 It gives me hope to see the yolo pityana post go viral now we know abusers look like ordinary people #YoloPityana24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.