Christine Hogg, GroundUpThe author was detained at Woodstock Police Station. (Masixole Feni, GroundUp) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The deadline for Bromwell Street residents in Woodstock, Cape Town to leave their homes has been extended to September 26th. One of the residents says gentrification is destroying lives in Woodstock and Salt River. Watch as we tell the story of gentrification in this area.WATCHCape Town - Nooraan Dreyer and her family, including three children and three grandchildren, have been ordered to leave their home of 11 years by 10:00 on Thursday.They are the last of several families evicted by the property's new owner who intends to turn the Salt River building into office space, GroundUp&nbsp;reported.Dreyer has been under threat of eviction since last year and in July the Cape Town Magistrate's Court ordered that she be evicted. After negotiations Dreyer's landlord gave her permission to stay on for four months, rent free, and to find alternative accommodation by November 30, 2016.In Salt River, where rents are increasing rapidly&nbsp;and, according to a News24 article, the average monthly rent is R6 301, this is difficult, particularly for low-to-mid-income earners."Four months is reasonable, without rent. But finding a place in that time is not easy," says Dreyer, especially when there are children involved.BlikkiesdorpWhen the eviction date neared and she still hadn't found a place to stay, she tried to challenge the eviction and asked for a 60-day extension. But because she had accepted the offer of staying on for four months and had not opposed the eviction order, she was unsuccessful: all she got was a few extra days to move her belongings and store them with extended family members. On Monday the sheriff of the court told her she must be out by December 8.According to the national Emergency Housing Programme, a municipality must provide alternative emergency accommodation as close as feasibly possible if there is a risk of homelessness. In Dreyer's case the City of Cape Town told the court in an affidavit that she is entitled to emergency housing in the form of "a structure" in the Symphony Way Temporary Relocation Area (TRA)&nbsp;in Delft, also known as Blikkiesdorp, when one becomes available. Blikkiesdorp is currently full but the affidavit states that, because it is a temporary housing, residents sometimes find long-term housing and a structure might become available.Safety concernsAccording to the city's affidavit, Dreyer will be offered an 18m&sup2; structure "made of non-flammable materials", with "shared services, access to electricity, refuse removal and high mast lighting". &nbsp;The city points out: "The court has in various judgments found that the TRA comprises reasonable alternative accommodation for persons facing eviction".But Dreyer does not want to go to Blikkiesdorp. "Delft? No, no way. Gangsterism, even though you're in your house, the guys start walking into your house."For her, safety and schooling for the children are priorities.Another option would be social housing with subsidised rent.Dire futureBut there is no social housing or emergency housing in Salt River, in neighbouring Woodstock or in the inner city at present, although the Western Cape government has agreed to look into the development of 270 social housing units on the Tafelberg site in Sea Point.In an email, Benedicta van Minnen, the City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for human settlements said up to six projects over the medium- to long-term were planned for Woodstock and Salt River but full feasibility studies were necessary first.Dreyer says although she did the right thing &ndash; paid rent on time and even offered to pay a little more when the owner first mentioned the renovations &ndash; her options for the future seem dire.She is currently waiting to hear about the possibility of renting a home in Kensington or Rugby. If that doesn't work out, she says, she will set up a Wendy house in an informal settlement close to her former home.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.