James de Villiers, News24Hundreds of Facebook users have come out in support of Springbok player, Siya Kolisi's interracial marriage, after a racist remark went viral on the social media platform. Watch.WATCHCape Town &ndash; Hundreds of Facebook users have turned the tables on another user who branded Springbok player Siya Kolisi's interracial marriage as distasteful. Scores of Facebook users also in interracial relationships hit back by taking to the platform and posting photographs of themselves with their partners. Dozens more also left comments expressing their revulsion with the racist post. By Monday hundreds of people had come out in solidarity with the interracial couple.Sharing an article about the Kolisis August wedding, the offending post, under the profile of a Hannes Lottering from Parys in the Free State, said: "I pray that this does not happen to my family. Honest to God, I would not know what to do.""Problem with mixed breeding is that the worst of the inferior bloodline becomes dominant," another post on the profile later said. Lottering's friends replied to the status using emoticons of faces throwing up to show their disgust with the marriage.Encouraging messagesThe profile later appeared to have been deleted from Facebook. It was not clear when the post about the Kolisis was made. On Monday Facebook users who supported the couple continued posting encouraging messages. "Mocking the couple doesn't tell us what kind of people they are but rather what kind of people the mockers and haters are. We are all flesh and bone with make-ups that differ. Love is not blind to colour," one post said. On Monday Rachel Kolisi took to Twitter saying: "I won't turn a blind eye. It will not be ignored." It is not the first time the Kolisis have been targeted because of their interracial relationship. In October News24 reported that Rachel said she felt sorry for racist trolls who are constantly berating them over their marriage. She was replying to a black man who swore at her in a private message for marrying a black man.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.