Sudan's president Omar al-Bashir. (AFP, File pictures) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Juba - Tensions are high as
Sudan’s government tries to resolve the country’s economic troubles. Following
the secession of South Sudan in 2011, Sudan’s economy has struggled to recover
after losing three-quarters of its oil production. Additionally, rising
inflation and US sanctions are adding to the discontent. Protests started in late
November. Hundreds of pharmacies closed their doors and went on strike last
month in solidarity with protesters and in response to the rising costs of
medicine. The Sudanese people have
also been using several hashtags in Arabic and English, like
#SudanCivilDisobedience, to share how they have been affected by austerity
measures, fuel subsidy cuts and price increases in medication, food and
electricity. Speaking to The Stream
on Al Jazeera English from Khartoum, pharmacist Samahir Mubarak said, "The price hikes are not bearable. The prices were high before the hikes and
right now it is even worse. It has been 150-300% increases in the prices of
medicine in the past month only. These decisions have been catastrophic; they
have been unbearable and the entire health sector is bearing the brunt of these
decisions.” Watch the full debate below. It's not just that people are no longer able to afford their heart
medicine and other treatments; Mubarak listed a variety of medications that are
no longer “to be found anywhere in Sudan,” including emergency epilepsy
medications, asthma inhalers, and tetanus, rabies and scorpion antidotes. Mekki El-Mograbi, media
counselor at the Embassy of Sudan in Washington, blamed the situation on the
economic crisis. “No one doubts there is an economy crisis in Sudan. There are
economy crises in the region and other countries. These economy crises made
this situation.” While El-Mograbi largely
blamed these economic crises on sanctions, commentator Ahmed Kodouda blamed the
sanctions on the government. Kodouda added, “The
Sudanese government right now put itself in this corner. For the past five
years, it recognized there is a 75% deficit in oil revenues. It did not prepare
for this period. It in fact systematically destroyed or neglected rather the agriculture
sector, which is historically the power base of the Sudanese economy. So when
we’re talking about the economic crisis Sudan is facing, we have to understand
that there are very important failures on behalf of the government, when it
comes to creating the polices that allow for the economy to survive post such a
severe shock, such as a the one that happened in 2011.” Activist Ahmad Mahmoud
also criticized the government for the failure to reach peace terms with the
rebels. “If
you stop this war, you are saving money.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  