Reneilwe Dhludhlu, Netwerk24A screenshot from the video of the attack. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A recent Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study for Grade 5s revealed some worrying stats about South African pupils' performance in maths and science. But perhaps of greater concern, was SA having the highest rate of school bullying. Watch. WATCHJohannesburg - Police are investigating a case of assault against a pupil at an East Rand school who reportedly attacked another boy, Netwerk24&nbsp;reported on Wednesday.&nbsp; A Grade 10 boy at Stoffberg High School in Brakpan allegedly hit the 15-year-old on November 14, after apparently seeing him with his ex-girlfriend.Pupils shared a cellphone video of the attack.When the victim reported it to the school, he was apparently told that they were busy with matric exams and could not attend to the matter immediately. &nbsp;His mother laid a charge with police on the same day. She was told it would be better to withdraw the case to spare her son further trauma.&nbsp;She refused to do so.Police spokesperson Captain Pearl van Staad confirmed that a case had been opened and said it was &nbsp;being investigated.&nbsp;"No police officer has the right to tell someone to withdraw a charge. Just a court can take that decision," Van Staad said. &nbsp;'My son is severely traumatised'The alleged attacker had already made a statement.&nbsp;"I&rsquo;m furious that nothing has been done to him. He hasn&rsquo;t even been suspended. My son is severely traumatised," the victim&rsquo;s mother said.&nbsp;She said she had reported the matter to the Gauteng education department, but they had told her that they could not do anything about it.The department has not responded to requests for comment on the matter.Stoffberg High&rsquo;s deputy principal, Hans van Zyl, said they had passed the matter on to the school&rsquo;s governing body. A meeting would be held with the boys&rsquo; parents next year.&nbsp;Van Zyl said, if the governing body could not solve the problem, they would get the provincial education department involved. &nbsp;The boy&rsquo;s mother said her son had not been back to school since the attack, because he was scared he might run into the other boy, and was not eating or sleeping.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.