Alven Appollis, Netwerk24Gavin and Rika Dry with their kids LillianRose, 4, and AlihGrace, 1, at the tree. (Supplied, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - On the N9 between Noupoort and Middelburg is a Thornless Honeylocust tree which "holds" a piece of a car that crashed into it 15 years ago. "It tells a story," Rika Dry of Cradock told&nbsp;Netwerk24, "our story."Dry, 35, crashed into the tree 15 years ago, after a piece of a wheel drum smashed through her car's windscreen and hit her in the face.&nbsp;"The tree has got willpower. The accident had given it a huge knock, it&rsquo;s since died, was chopped down &ndash; and then started growing again. We&rsquo;ve taken home some of the wreckage which it has been 'keeping' for us,&rdquo; Dry said.Her mother, Rosette Langenhoven, 61, who was in the passenger seat, was injured as well. Two friends in the back seat were unhurt.&nbsp;"I remember it like yesterday," said Dry."I was a student working at a supermarket for the holidays, in Noupoort. The rain was bucketing down. I was knocked unconscious when the wheel drum hit me. From what I&rsquo;ve gathered, the car left the road and we hit the tree at full speed after bursting through a fence."The wheel drum narrowly missed her nose, throat and tongue.&nbsp;"If I can put it this way, it hit me perfectly so as not to kill me," said Dry."When we came to a stop, I drifted in and out of consciousness. I apparently had breathing problems before being taken to hospital.&nbsp;"What I do remember is shouting for my mother. She was trapped in the wreckage. A man came along and kept her calm until she could be freed. We still don&rsquo;t know who the man was, but if I could track him down, I just want to thank him. He supported my mom when I couldn&rsquo;t."Dry, her husband Gavin, and their two children visited the scene of the accident on Sunday, 15 years after it had happened.&nbsp;"I&rsquo;ve been back before, three weeks after the accident and about five years ago as well. However, I&rsquo;d never seen the piece of metal from our car stuck in the tree."My mom didn&rsquo;t do so well after the crash. She even developed diabetes from the shock, but she doesn&rsquo;t let it get her down. I think we&rsquo;re like the tree. What doesn&rsquo;t kill you makes you stronger. The miracle of life and surviving." The tree has grown around a part of the car that got stuck in it. (Supplied)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.