Amanda Khoza, News24 The ANC's Super Zuma. (City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; KwaZulu-Natal, the ANC's biggest stronghold, has again positioned itself as the leader and kingmaker ahead of the party's much anticipated 54th&nbsp;national elective conference. A buoyant Super Zuma, who is the ANC&nbsp; provincial secretary, has told a gathering at an ANC Youth League lecture in Durban that the province would keep its cards close to its chest until the end of January. "We will show you how KZN plans to play the soccer game next year," he told more than 2 000 people gathered at the Olive Convention Centre, referring to the manner in which the province planned to lobby for its preferred candidate as the race for the party&rsquo;s next leader continued to intensify.Zuma was addressing guests, including President Jacob Zuma, ANC Youth League president Collen Maine, SAA board chairperson Dudu Myeni, Jimmy Manyi, Minister Nathi Mthethwa and other ANC national executive committee&nbsp;members. &nbsp;The provincial secretary said forums would be held where branches in the province would meet...the first being at the end of January.He said the province would use the forums to prepare for next year's national policy conferenceOne voice"[In January] That is where we will call all of the branches of KZN and discuss our position on the policy and the national conference. That is where we will be speaking about the structures of the ANC that will be playing the soccer game at the conferences. "We are saying that if you are struggling to play the soccer game - some of them have even pulled out of the game, but [the] majority of them will be spectators - we are saying they must wait for us so that we can play the soccer game," he said, referring to the current political landscape. He said KZN would reveal its cards on how it would play "the game" in January. "The time is coming to make pronouncements and our branches are waiting eagerly. Even when we get to the national conference we, as KZN, will have one voice. "Those that are playing games at night, just know that the branches are telling us, we will show you how the 'soccer game' is played. We will reveal the mandate at the end of January," Zuma warned. ANC Youth League provincial chairperson Thami Ngubane said the forums should be considered as political education and should be used to&nbsp;question whether the organisation was on track or not."We have just come from the elections and there has been poor performance, particularly in the metros. But I have been analysing the results and people have been saying that the solution was for [President Jacob] Zuma to step down."'We need to revive our conscience'He said the call was "tantamount [to a] dereliction of intellectual duty."You can't solve what you don't understand. What are underlying factors that led to the poor performance of the ANC? It is illogical to say that it was one man."Ngubane said the organisation was "at war".eThekwini regional chairperson Mayor Zandile Gumede said to attain economic emancipation the organisation needed fully equipped members, especially the youth. "Our organisation is faced with a number of challenges. We hope that this will revive our struggle. We need to revive our conscience."She urged the youth league to start preparing for 2017. "Start now with plans for 2017. From today you must be united and make sure that you end divisions.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.