Amanda Khoza, News24 (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Two Katlehong cousins who pleaded guilty to killing three of their relatives, including a seven-month-old baby, are expected back in court on Wednesday.The cousins, aged 17 and 21, who cannot be named, are expected to appear in the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge.On October 24, they pleaded guilty to three counts of murder, attempted murder, and robbery with aggravating circumstances.Two of Thembi Letswale's daughters, her niece, and baby granddaughter were attacked in her Katlehong home, on the East Rand, in December 2015.One of the daughters, Nthabiseng Letswale, 23, fought off the attackers and ran for help. She was stabbed, but survived.Her sister Lerato Letswale, 18, cousin Lebohang Prisca Movit, 22, and Movit's seven-month-old baby girl, Bokamoso Skhumbuzo Movit, were killed.They were stabbed repeatedly and put into a bathtub filled with boiling water.According to the 21-year-old&rsquo;s affidavit, their grandmother had asked Lerato to prepare food for them before she left for work.A little while later, Lerato received a call from their grandmother, asking that the two boys should bring food to her at a local scrap yard.&ldquo;Along the way, we bought drugs known as Ice. We smoked some and proceeded to the scrap yard,&rdquo; the cousins&rsquo; lawyer, Mmati Leoto, read from the affidavit.When they did not find their grandmother, they returned to the house.He claimed he got angry after Prisca Movit told him to smoke his drugs outside the house.&ldquo;Without uttering a word, I stood up, grabbed Prisca, held her around the neck in a vice grip and strangled her until she was motionless,&rdquo; the affidavit read.In his affidavit, the 17-year-old claimed he approached Lerato in the bathroom and tried to explain what he had witnessed. He said Lerato was frightened and thought he wanted to rape her. She started screaming at him.&ldquo;She pleaded with me that I should not rape her. This whole time I was trying to explain and she pushed me out of the bathroom,&rdquo; he claimed.He pushed her. She bumped her head against the sink and bled from the forehead.&ldquo;After she hysterically shouted and cried, 'Don&rsquo;t rape me, please don&rsquo;t rape me,' I panicked, closed her mouth with my hand and strangled her.&rdquo;When she became motionless, he filled the bathtub with water and went to the living room, where his 21-year-old cousin was.They decided to put Prisca&rsquo;s body in the bathtub with Lerato.According to the 17-year-old&rsquo;s affidavit, the baby was crying hysterically. He picked him up and drowned him in the bathtub. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.