Omega Moagi, The Witness Ntando Gasa stands at the spot where she was mugged on the corner of Boshoff and Aberfeldy streets.  (Ian Carbutt) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A Scottsville mugger seems to have had a dose of the Christmas spirit while robbing a woman on Monday.  The man who robbed a woman while weilding a large knife at her, then took pity on her and gave her back R10 for taxi fare to get home.  DUT student Ntando Gasa of Scottsville was on her way to visit a friend when a man with blood on his pants approached her.  “I was walking down the street only a few metres from our house when the guy approached me, pointed a big knife at me, and said I must give him my cellphone.”  Wary of the laptop also inside her bag, Gasa carefully searched inside her bag for the phone and handed it over to the robber, who then demanded money. “After I gave him the cellphone he asked for money and I gave him all that was in my wallet, which was about R120. He asked me where I was from. I said I was from Imbali because I didn’t want him to think I was from here.” Then Gasa had a real surprise.  “He then said, ‘taxi fare to Imbali is R12?’  “I said yes and he started looking among the money I had given him and gave me R10 back. He said he didn’t have the R2. “He said I should take a taxi home, but that I dare not scream or try to run after him.” Gasa said she was shocked at that. “It was in broad daylight and I walk on this street all the time … I’m so shaken I don’t even know what I’m going to tell my parents because this is not the first phone I’ve lost through mugging. “I’m glad that he did not see my laptop,” said Gasa, who was adamant she would not report the case to the police. Pietermaritzburg SAPS spokesperson Mthokozisi Ngobese said it was difficult to assist someone on a case that has not been reported.  He said it was important that victims reported cases to the police station so that the police could protect them and better monitor crime.  “The victim must report the crime because without reporting a case the police cannot do anything about it,” said Ngobese.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  