Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 For many, 2016 has been a long, tough and draining year. We can all agree that this may differ from person to person, however, we cannot deny the many positives that have come from this year, no matter how many negatives we have encountered.The year 2016 has been good for all of us here at People s Post. From winning awards to winning your hearts 2016 has done us many favours.With this being our last edition for the year, we have taken a look back at the thousands of words penned for your reading pleasure. Among the six journalists working across our 10 titles, we could easily have written thousands of articles over the 50 editions published this year, bringing you news that has touched your hearts, made you happy, sad or angry, or that educated you on issues and common topics.From ups and downs in crime, to celebrities, breaking news, car chases, raids, municipal matters and local elections, we have covered it all. We won awards, we gave awards and we shared the stories of locals whose generosity and hard work has earned them awards. From old and new partnerships to interviews with community workers, neighbourhood watches, authors, script writers and local movie stars too many articles and advertisements stand out to reflect on in the little space we have.All of us here at People s Post, thank all our readers and clients for your continued support.We look forward to bringing you a great product in 2017, but for now, have a wonderful, safe and happy festive season and a prosperous new year.V This is the last edition of People s Post for 2016. Our office will be closed from 22 December to 5 January 2017. The first edition for 2017 will hit the streets on 17 January.V Stay up to date with breaking news during the holidays at www.peoplespost.co.za. For breaking news during this period please contact our online journalist on 021 910 6587 or monique.duval@peoplespost.co.za.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.