President Jacob Zuma. (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Zimbabwean Anglican priest, 65, threatened to axe his wife after he accused her of denying him his conjugal rights and of being "disrespectful", a report says. Cape Town &ndash; Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has reportedly paid tribute to his counterpart President Jacob Zuma and the African National Congress (ANC) for "supporting" his ruling Zanu-PF party.According to the state-owned Sunday Mail newspaper, Mugabe, in particular, thanked Zuma for sending a high level delegation led by Vice President Cyril Ramaphosa as a show of solidarity at the just ended Zanu-PF's 16th Annual National People's Conference in Masvingo. "We offer our thanks to our comrades, representatives of progressive parties, especially the ANC and President Zuma for sending us that high-powered delegation that was led by his vice president."We thank you for that," Mugabe was quoted as saying.Mugabe made the remarks as he closed the conference on Saturday. During his speech at the conference, Ramaphosa hailed the Zanu-PF party, saying that the ANC would continue seeking guidance from the liberation movement."As ANC, we envy Zanu-PF and admire the manner in which the party holds its conferences with so many people gathered here, having serious political discussions on important issues that have to do with your own transformation process," Ramaphosa was quoted as saying.According to reports, the conference was attended by more that 7 000 delegates.Watch the video below as Ramaphosa speaksRamaphosa said the ANC also admired the manner in which President Robert Mugabe's party continued to defend the gains of the southern African country&rsquo;s revolution. According to Eye Witness News, Ramaphosa also said that the ANC and Zanu-PF were "joined at the hip", adding that Mugabe&rsquo;s call for unity was also a message to the ANC.The deputy president that he and his delegation would leave Zimbabwe greatly enriched by Mugabe&rsquo;s speech.Mugabe in his keynote address on Friday Mugabe, 92, denounced indiscipline among members of Zanu-PF calling for his retirement and urged an end to factional feuding threatening to tear the party apart. "Some say 'we no longer want Mr Mugabe'. If you don't like him what do you do then if the majority of the party still loves him?," Mugabe said. The nonagenarian has been in power since independence from British colonial rule in 1980. He has avoided naming a successor or laying out plans to retire.He once joked that he would rule until he turned 100.The absence of a clear successor has sparked infighting, including verbal exchanges on social media in recent weeks between factions angling for his position. "As a party we must always speak with one voice and to our leaders, we so not run or organize matters of the party or settle our grievances through Twitter and Facebook," the veteran leader said.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.