Llewellyn Prince, Netwerk24 President Jacob Zuma (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Due to ongoing corruption scandals, and the damage caused to the Constitution, the economy and South Africa’s international reputation, the DA had decided to give President Jacob Zuma an F- on his report card, party leader Mmusi Maimane said on Thursday. At the release of the report at Parliament, Maimane said the report was a comprehensive evaluation of Zuma and his Cabinet, who "embody a government that does not want to be held accountable and who put the needs of the ANC before the needs of the country and its people", Netwerk24 reported. "The entire country wants him to go. If we could have given him less than an F- we would have," Maimane said. No minister got an A.  Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor got Bs. Pandor’s B was her third in a row from the DA, who said her department "has clear direction and strategy and she has reached her targets". Maimane said Gordhan, despite having both hands tied behind his back and thus being unable to effect structural reform to boost economic growth and create jobs, had committed to a "prudent, sustainable fiscal policy trajectory", aimed at reducing expenditure, raising revenue, managing fiscal risks at state-owned enterprises in order to close the budget deficit, achieve a primary surplus, and stabilise debt. "If Gordhan is removed, the way will be cleared for ANC tsotsis to plunder the state coffers," he added. D for the deputy Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa got a D. Four ministers were given a C: Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom, Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel, Public Service and Adminstration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi, and Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa. The rest all got Fs: Bathabile Dlamini (social development), Lindiwe Zulu (small business development), Nomvula Mokonyane (water and sanitation), Nathi Nhleko (police), David Mahlobo (state security), Des van Rooyen (co-operative governance and traditional affairs) and Mosebenzi Zwane (minerals). Maimane said there was no denying that 2016 had been a turbulent year in South African politics, and the country in general. "The ANC has done little to curb unemployment, the devastating effects of state capture, the drought, attacks on the media, or threats to the independence and integrity of constitutional bodies." He said the DA, as the official opposition, had the constitutional duty to hold the executive to account.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  