James de Villiers, News 24 Robyn Pearce who was killed in an apartment in Sea Point the past weekend. (Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Police are yet to make an arrest for the murder of a 23-year-old Stellenbosch University student found murdered in an apartment in Sea Point last weekend.&nbsp;Robyn Pearce is believed to have been visiting a friend when she was stabbed on Saturday, December&nbsp;4.Western Cape Police spokesperson Captain Federick van Wyk&nbsp;confirmed the killing to&nbsp;News24 on Sunday. He said no arrests had been made.It was not immediately clear why Pearce was killed.The university's senior director&nbsp;of student affairs Dr Birgit Schreiber described&nbsp;her murder&nbsp;as a tragic loss and said that she would be terribly missed by students and the institution. "She was highly valued in the university's private ward student organisation and in the cluster groups. We share the most heartfelt condolences with the family during these most trying times," Schreiber said in a statement.&nbsp; University spokesperson Martin Viljoen said the university had been in contact with the family to offer necessary support and counselling.&nbsp; Friends and family took to Facebook to share their condolences.&nbsp; "Thoughts and prayers go out to the Pearce family! Your daughter was a beautiful and lovely person! May her soul Rest In Peace and that the Lord may cover you with the peace which passes all understanding! Politics tut will not be as productive! Robyn Pearce you will be a sweet memory," Bianca Hull wrote on Thursday.&nbsp; "In the short life you lived on this earth you were humble, respectable and always pleasant. Beautiful soul inside and out. Our hearts are broken having to bid you farewell today. We love you Robyn and know that you safe in the arms of Jesus," Tracey Leigh Williams said. The family is planning a memorial service for early next year. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.