Iavan Pijoos, News24Patrick Wisani in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court. (Wim Pretorius, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The sentencing of former ANC Youth League leader and convicted killer&nbsp;Patrick Wisani was postponed in the High Court sitting in Randburg on Monday morning. Defence attorney Cronje Kriel asked if the matter could be postponed for them to raise funds for Wisani's legal representation and to get&nbsp;a transcript. However, Judge Mohamed Ismail said a long postponement would be pointless. "A lengthy postponement is meaningless and I have a lot of other things to do. You can treat this as a matter of urgency and get a transcript in two weeks," Ismail said. Last month Wisani was found guilty of the murder of Nosipho Mandeleleni.He beat the 24-year-old to death with a sjambok at their home in Yeoville in September 2015.She died on the scene as a result of her injuries.Wisani denied he assaulted her and that they had argued.Bail revoked after assaultHe was subsequently arrested for her death and released on bail pending further investigation.During this time he allegedly threatened and assaulted two State witnesses, leading to his bail being revoked.On Monday the public&nbsp;gallery was filled with activists wearing purple T-shirts with the words "Stop Violence Against Women Abuse" printed on them.Wisani was the chairperson of an ANC Youth League branch in the inner Johannesburg area prior to his arrest. On Monday Ismail told Wisani that the matter against him would definitely go ahead."Whether you have a transcript or legal funds [or not], I can assure you that this matter will proceed," he said. National&nbsp;Prosecuting&nbsp;Authority&nbsp;spokesperson Phindi Louw said the State would go with the court's decision. "As the State we abide by the court decision. Things like this happen in our courts. If a presiding officer feels that four months is necessary for a postponement, we abide by it," Louw said.The matter was postponed to April 24 and 25, 2017.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.