Derrick Spies, News24 CorrespondentA number of homes have been lost and the fire has moved down the ridge to Kamma Park, moving towards Lorraine. Port Elizabeth - A raging fire that destroyed one home and threatened to cross over into the residential area of Lorraine was brought under control by firefighters and volunteers on Tuesday evening.- Were you affected? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. The fire moved quickly through the dry brush and vegetation from around 15:00 on Tuesday, aggravated by gusting gale-force winds ranging between 60 and 88 kilometres an hour. As the fire moved closer to homes a number of residents in the Theescombe and Chelsea areas evacuated their properties.Nelson Mandela Bay&rsquo;s mayoral chief of staff, Kristoff Adelbert, said some residents of Kamma Heights and a frail care centre had also been evacuated. The smallholdings in the area are popular among the equestrian community, and several&nbsp; people were seen transporting their horses to alternative stabling late at night as the fire spread. The fire was eventually brought under control around 21:00, as the winds died down. The fire brigade monitored the situation throughout the night as volunteers drove up and down Montmedy road, fighting flare ups that threatened properties into the early hours of the morning.Peter Potgieter, who owns Whipper Soft Wash systems, said he had seen the fire and had decided to help.&nbsp; Armed with over a 1000 litres of borehole water, a pump, hose and sprayer on the back of his bakkie, which is used for his cleaning business, Potgieter joined up with the volunteers. Teaming up with a dedicated team from the Algoa Park, Malabar and Gelvandale neighbourhood watches, armed with buckets and spades, the volunteers battled until after midnight to keep the fire from reaching popular wedding venue, La Colline. Other community members came out with bottles of water and cooldrinks for those battling the flames.Mayoral committee member for safety and security, John Best, confirmed that only one house had been destroyed by the blaze. He said there had been minor injuries, including scratches and cuts, as well as some firefighters who had battled with smoke inhalation.Wind has dropped significantly. Fire teams are now dousing two small flare ups along Montmedy Road. Thank you to all who assisted. #NMBfire&mdash; Athol Trollip (@AtholT) December 6, 2016#NMBFires still raging near Lorraine. Scary scenes. @NMBmunicipality working around the clock to stop the blaze. pic.twitter.com/OEQHPJxj5s&mdash; Kris (@KristoffDJ) December 6, 2016Terrible fires in PE! Keep safe everyone!@HeraldPE: #NMBFires in pictures: pic.twitter.com/cv8lwpAXy3"&mdash; AngelaDaniels (@AngeeDaniels) December 6, 2016Fire in Kamma Heights Port Elizabeth pic.twitter.com/s7Vh7ESi80&mdash; MARIUS (@marius28767116) December 6, 2016Wind has dropped significantly. Fire teams are now dousing two small flare ups along Montmedy Road. Thank you to all who assisted. #NMBfire#NMBFires still raging near Lorraine. Scary scenes. @NMBmunicipality working around the clock to stop the blaze. pic.twitter.com/OEQHPJxj5sTerrible fires in PE! Keep safe everyone!@HeraldPE: #NMBFires in pictures: pic.twitter.com/cv8lwpAXy3"Fire in Kamma Heights Port Elizabeth pic.twitter.com/s7Vh7ESi8024.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.