Jeff Wicks and Jeanette Chabalala, News24Prince Mokotedi (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Controversial Gauteng Hawks head Prince Mokotedi has reneged on an agreement to be subjected to a lie detector test. Mokotedi initially&nbsp;agreed to the polygraph test after last week making explosive claims of espionage and high treason against private investigator Paul O&rsquo;Sullivan, Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) boss Robert McBride and his predecessor Shadrack Sibiya.But on Tuesday Mokotedi told News24 although he wanted to do the test, he was advised that it had no legal purpose.&ldquo;I am not a suspect here, McBride is a suspect. We will do everything following proper legal process; we are avoiding playing into a narrative that suggests we are investigating people through the media. I don&rsquo;t want to be seen to be investigating him [McBride] through the media," he said."When I opened the case against him I just wanted to show the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hand and I respect the public interest in the matter, but I believe the law must take its course.&nbsp;All the issues that he wants me to address in a polygraph test, we can do so in an open court of law."&nbsp; The national Hawks also weighed into the matter issuing a statement on Tuesday saying: "After seeking legal opinion, the [Hawks] were advised that Major General Prince Mokotedi's participation will not serve any legal purpose, but could unsettle the network of sources and informers that has been cultivated as part of the ongoing investigations. "Major General Mokotedi opened a case wherein certain senior public officials and organisations are implicated. He committed to participate in the public polygraph test to prove that he had no ill intentions as some of the implicated persons have suggested."Mokotedi&rsquo;s allegations against O'Sullivan and McBride are contained in an affidavit which forms the basis of a criminal case, understood to have been registered at Bedfordview SAPS last week. The affidavit details a secret meeting of O&rsquo;Sullivan, McBride and Sibiya at a house which once belonged to Czech fugitive Radovan Krecjir. Mokotedi claims that members of AfriForum and the Democratic Alliance were also party to the surreptitious rendezvous aimed at identifying certain people &ldquo;as targets for vexatious criminal investigations and shaming in the media&rdquo;.After the contents of the affidavit surfaced publicly, O&rsquo;Sullivan and McBride hit back, challenging Mokotedi to a public polygraph test.He had initially agreed to this.O&rsquo;Sullivan told News24 that Mokotedi had sent a message of cancellation to the polygraph examiner who had been trying to establish a date and time of the test with him. &ldquo;With the integrity of my heart and innocence of my hand I opened the criminal investigation docket wherein certain senior public officials are implicated. I further wanted to participate in the polygraph test to prove that I had no ill intentions as some of the implicated persons have suggested.&ldquo;However, I was advised that I should not partake as my participation will serve no legal purpose but could unsettle the network of sources and informers that has been cultivated by us and other state security agencies,&rdquo; Mokotedi&rsquo;s message apparently said.&ldquo;The investigation has gained traction and we have taken sworn statements from witnesses. Accordingly, all the issues that the implicated persons wished to address through my participation in the polygraph test can be ventilated properly through the open courts of law. It will be in the interest of Justice that the implicated persons should given a chance to respond to the allegations through the courts rather than through the media." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.