James de Villiers, News 24 Arrow the skydiving dog. (Paramount) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Honey is South Africa's first known diabetic medical assist dog in training. Find out how the two-year-old golden retriever is helping 12-year-old Duncan, by alerting him when his blood sugar levels are low.WATCHPretoria &ndash; A German Shepherd from Rustenberg has pawed his way into the Guinness World Records by being recognised as the world&rsquo;s first anti-poaching skydiving dog.&nbsp;Arrow made the jump at the Air Force Base Waterkloof in September, but it took Guinness World Records until early December to verify the record.&nbsp;This is not the first time a dog has jumped out of a plane with a parachute, but it is the first time a dog has done so in an anti-poaching operation.Arrow will not participate in anti-poaching operations, but will be used to determine how to train other dogs.In a press release, Arrow&rsquo;s handler Henry Holtshyzen said trust between the two was essential for a jump. &nbsp;&ldquo;I jumped out of the helicopter and it was just natural for him to follow me. I rely on him and in turn he relies on me. I&rsquo;m willing to go into battle with him because I trust him. Trust forms the basis of our relationship and that enables the handler and the K9 relationship to excel,&rdquo; Holtshyzen said.&nbsp;Since puppyhood Arrow and Holtshyzen have bonded.They eat, sleep, and work together to develop the inseparable bond needed to carry out high-pressure anti-poaching tasks together.Selected as a puppy&ldquo;He&rsquo;s a natural born skydiver and an adrenaline junkie. I was more scared than he was,&rdquo; Holtshyzen said.&nbsp;Two-year-old Arrow was selected for the jump as a puppy, because of his temperament.He was trained to descend from a helicopter by rope, strapped to Holtshyzen and, finally, to skydive.&nbsp;Arrow is a part of the Paramount Group&rsquo;s Anti-Poaching and Canine Training Academy in Rustenburg. He is one of 200 specially-bred and trained dogs at the academy. The Paramount Group is an international weapons manufacturer based in South Africa.&nbsp; According to Save the Rhino, roughly 5 940 rhino have been killed for their horns in Africa&nbsp;since 2008.In 2015, 1 175 rhinos were poached in South Africa.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.