Anmi.HoniballThe 2016 Phatshoane Henney New Breed Art competition winners are from the left Sandy Little, Mothobi Mefane (merit awards winners), Toni Pretorius (overall winner), Helena de Waal (runner-up) and Carmen van Staden (the Public Choice Award). Photo: Mlungisi Louw Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Individual artworks of five artists earned each sought-af ter prizes in this year s Phatshoane Henney New Breed Art competition. The five category winners were Sandy Little, Mothobi Mefane, Toni Pretorius, Helena de Waal and Carmen van Staden. Their stunning works were chosen by the judging panel out of the 35 top Free State artists works initially selected for the prizes. The winners were announced at a function held recently at the Oliewenhuis Art Museum in Bloemfontein.Toni Pretorius scooped the ultimate prize of R50 000 for her masterpiece Amassing for our Carrion King, with Helena de Waal taking the runner-up prize of R20 000 for her magnificent ceramic creation entitled Name changing object through which she interrogates the patriarchal societal system which regulates the assigned roles of men and woman. Using the everyday object of a wedding dress, she questions the notion that a woman has to take her husband s surname upon marriage, thereby becoming his possession and an object to be used as he pleases. The Public Choice Award attracted a lot of attention and votes. With five artists lined up for the award, it took a last minute-gasp to decide the winner is Carmen van Staden, who had two works qualified for the exhibition namely The Flier and Erupted thoughts. She received R10 000. The recipients of the two merit awards, R10 000 each, were awarded to Mothobi Mefane for Metsi and Sandy Little for We are responsible for the image, for Ophelia, Reeva, Jade and Ayanda.The merit awards serve as an investment in the personal and professional development of artists in whom the judges see great potential and were overwhelmingly excited. The merit awards is therefore an acknowledgement of two artists who show exceptional technical skill and whose work deal with some of the most pressing issues in our South African context. Sam Moleko, director at the law firm, congratulated the winners, saying that Phatshoane Henney Attorneys sincerely hopes that the laurels they received will affirm their talent and assist them on their road to success. We will most certainly be following their careers with interest. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.