Kaveel Singh, News24 (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; The killing of two IFP leaders over the weekend was senseless and brutal, party spokesperson on community safety and liaison Blessed Gwala said on Tuesday. "These are senseless killings of leaders who had much to contribute to their respective communities but their lives have been cut short in a most brutal manner," Gwala said. Chairperson of the IFP's Mambuka branch in uMhlathuze Simo Ndlovu, 37, was gunned in his home on Sunday night. Youth publicity secretary for the party's Ndondwane branch Lungisani Sithole, 27, was stabbed to death at eSikhaleni on his way from his father's funeral also on Sunday."The Inkatha Freedom Party is shocked by the brutal attacks on its members that saw two of its leaders brutally killed... When families and communities are supposed to be enjoying the festive season, they are now preparing to bury their loved ones," said Gwala.Request for rewardGwala said it was unacceptable that "people are indiscriminately killed while going about their daily lives"."This must stop immediately before there is any more loss of innocent lives. We cannot go on living in an environment where such lawlessness prevails and innocent citizens become random targets for killers who go unpunished."Gwala added that he made a request for police to offer a reward to anyone who gives them information leading to the arrest of the suspects. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said police were investigating two cases of murder following the killings. She added that police were yet to ascertain motives for the killings. "We are appealing to anyone who might have [information] that will lead to the arrest of suspects involved in the murders to contact their local police or our Crime Stop number on 08600 10111."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.