Tanya Van ZylCharlton Tobias. Photos: SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE PE Express spoke to a few local celebrities and newsmakers about their plans for Christmas and their wish for the New Year.Here is what they said.Charlton Tobias &ndash; presenter at Algoa FM What are your plans for Christmas/the holiday? For the first time we will be spending Christmas with my in-laws in Johannesburg. My wife, Natalie, and daughters Taylor (17) and Teliah (12), are really looking forward to the trip and surely will be adding to the Gauteng economy as I have no doubt in my mind a lot of time will be spent in the Joburg shopping centres over the Christmas period. My wife is very good at that!What is your wish for 2017? My plans for the new year is to expand on business ventures and network with business men and women. Who knows what the future holds. And to be as successful as I possibly can. Also not forgetting to have as much fun as I always do on Algoa FM.Russell Domingo &ndash; national cricket coach and PE born What are your plans for Christmas/the holiday? We play a test match in PE on December 26, so I will spend most of the time preparing for a test match, but we will have a Christmas dinner with the team and all the families. It&rsquo;s normally a good event.What is your wish for 2017? My wish for the new year professionally is to continually build on the success of this new Proteas team and strive to re-establish ourselves as the number one test team in the world. Personally to just value the time and appreciate the moments I get to spend with my young family.Mikaela Oosthuizen &ndash; Miss SA Finalist 2016, Miss SA Teen 2010 and Kingfisher FM radio presenter What are your plans for Christmas/the holiday? Because nothing brings people together like good food, I will be spending a lot of time with family sharing memories over festive meals. Going to the beach is also one of my favourite things in the world, but due to my busy schedule and extensive travelling, I don&rsquo;t always have the chance to enjoy. Over the holidays I plan to soak up the sun and truly appreciate what PE&rsquo;s gorgeous coastline has to offer. I&rsquo;d rather have a sun-soaked Christmas than a snowy Christmas any day!What is your wish for 2017? They say the best way to predict the future is to create it and so I know that leading up to 2017 I have been putting in hard work and trust that the seeds sown in 2016 will continue to blossom as they have in all areas of my life. For our country, I trust for a returned sense of unity and direction towards a common goal that benefits all people of this diverse nation.Adrian Gardiner, Founder and Chairman of Mantis Collection What are your plans for Christmas/the holiday? We plan to be with all our family at Kleinemonde, relaxing on the beach, playing golf and enjoying our six grandchildren and their families.What is your wish for 2017? My personal wish is that we achieve a stable political environment and get on with the work of creating economic growth, which will result in employment and a happy and proud country. Workwise &ndash; we hope to grow our Mantis brand into a powerful international brand, but to keep our Head Office in PE.Athol Trollip &ndash; Executive Mayor: Nelson Mandela Bay What are your plans for Christmas/the holiday? My plans for Christmas are to stay at home, enjoy time with my visiting family and to experience NMBM Summer season events and I am looking forward to the cricket test, especially with the Proteas playing so well. What is your wish for 2017? My wishes for 2017 are that we will have lots of rain to avert a serious water shortage crisis; the economy will come out of recession and that NMB will start booming so that we can address our crisis of unemployment.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.