George Louka (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Four affidavits made by Cypriot national George Louca before he died, that were not made public, have been revealed in a new book about Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir. The book, Krejcir: Business as Usual, by News24 investigative reporter Angelique Serrao, contains details of five affidavits Louca made before his death from cancer in 2014. Only one of the affidavits, Louca's version of how Lolly Jackson was killed, was ever admitted into the court record. The other four are fully explored for the first time in the book which details Krejcir's rise and fall, from the time he stepped off the plane at OR Tambo International Airport in 2007, to his arrest in 2013 and subsequent trials. Louca was known as a wheeler-dealer in Bedfordview who often did work for Teazers strip club owner Lolly Jackson. He was arrested for theft in 2007 and shared a cell with Krejcir at the Kempton Park police station. Interpol had red-flagged the Czech fugitive as he was wanted for various crimes in the Czech Republic. Louca was subsequently named in the media as the man who called police crime intelligence head Joey Mabasa the night Jackson was murdered in May 2010, and allegedly admitted to killing the "king of tease". He fled the country for the country of his birth: Cyprus. Claims of torture, murder The South African government successfully had him extradited, but before he could face trial for Jackson's murder, he was diagnosed with terminal cancer. Days before he died, he told the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court his version of Jackson's murder. He told the court Krejcir pulled the trigger during an argument over money. This was after Jackson found out that Krejcir had defrauded him in a money laundering scheme the three were involved in. Krejcir denied any involvement in Jackson's death. According to Louca's first affidavit, he met Krejcir in a jail cell in April 2007. Louca alleged that he helped Krejcir pay a bribe to an official to secure his release and have the extradition case against him dropped. In the other affidavits Louca alleged that Krejcir sent him to the Czech Republic to help assassinate someone there. He helped Krejcir kidnap and torture a Russian assassin who had been sent from the Czech Republic to kill Krejcir. In the final affidavit, Louca said Krejcir asked him to lure German luxury car converter Uwe Gemballa to South Africa because he wanted revenge. Gemballa had allegedly never returned a Porsche that Krejcir had sent him years before due to a payment dispute. Louca believed Krejcir wanted Gemballa murdered. * Both Louca and Louka were used in the court papers 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  