Mandla Mahashe Residents of Cossovo infomal settlement in Samora Machel are busy rebuilding their structure after a fire razed them to the ground on Tuesday. PHOTO: Lulekwa Mbadamane Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories More than 100 residents in Cossovo informal Settlement were forced to rebuild their homes yesterday morning after their shacks burnt to the ground.The raging fire, which engulfed the Samora Machel settlement, devoured 88 shacks on Tuesday afternoon. Residents alleged that one of them must have left her house with the stove on.Xolani Joja, a community leader said: She was cooking when the stove caught fire and the house was engulfed in flames. Residents claimed she was cooking a very fatty sausage, which has the tendency to spill fat when cooked.He said that this was the third fire in the area since the beginning of the year, fortunately, there had been no reported injuries or fatalities. No one has been reported injured or deceased and many people are rebuilding their homes. It s sad because many people lost their belongs because the fire took place while they were at work. They couldn t save their goods. This is particularly painful as people are looking forward to the festive season, said Joja. He said that they were working with the city and home affairs department to make sure that people receive accommodation, building materials as well as their identification documents. Unfortunately the only solution to shack fires is the building of proper houses for the people and we are confident that the City and other stakeholders are working hard to make this a possibility, said Joja. This loss was preceded by another shack fire that took place on Saturday afternoon in New Rest informal settlement in Nyanga where 10 shacks were destroyed. On Wednesday the local ward councillor Siphiwo Nqamnduku was on the scene waiting for disaster relief. People from the housing department, we are also waiting for people to gather what is left so that we can start the identity document process. We are trying our best to assist, said Nqamnduku. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.