James de Villiers, News24Tito Mboweni (City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former Reserve Bank governor Tito Mboweni apparently lost R5 000 in an ATM scam at a petrol station in Midrand on Thursday afternoon.He recounted the incident on his Twitter account. "Just been duped and lost my card and ten minutes later, R5k withdrawn," he tweeted."Be alert at the ATMs at Shell and Caltex Petrol stations, N1, Midrand."Mboweni later referred to an alleged criminal operating in the area. "There is an ATM thug operating there. He looks like a perfect gentleman, bold [sic] head, smartly dressed and seemingly very helpful. Be warned," he tweeted.However, Gauteng police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said that police had not received a report of an incident in the Midrand area."I phoned three police stations in the area (and) didn't get any case in the area Mboweni alleged the incident took place," Makhubele said on Friday morning. In March, Fin24 reported about well-spoken fraudsters lurking around Cape Town ATMs, who were allegedly scamming international tourists out of thousands of rands. The fraudsters operated in a group and would steal the pins and cards of unsuspecting tourists.In October 2014, ANC MP Jackson Mthembu was shot and wounded while drawing money at an ATM in Emalahleni.Be alert at the ATMs at Shell and Caltex Petrol stations, N1, Midrand. Just been duped and lost my card and ten minutes later, R5k withdrawn&mdash; Tito Mboweni (@tito_mboweni) December 8, 2016There is an ATM thug operating there. He looks like a perfect gentleman, bold head, smartly dressed and seemingly very helpful. Be warned!&mdash; Tito Mboweni (@tito_mboweni) December 8, 2016Be alert at the ATMs at Shell and Caltex Petrol stations, N1, Midrand. Just been duped and lost my card and ten minutes later, R5k withdrawnThere is an ATM thug operating there. He looks like a perfect gentleman, bold head, smartly dressed and seemingly very helpful. Be warned!24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.