Lizeka Tandwa, News24Nehawu logo Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The decision to withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC) should be left to Parliament, the National Education Health and Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu) said on Thursday, condemning the executive.&nbsp;"That thing must be done properly so that there are no issues, we are condemning it. It's important that we follow the processes that are here," said Nehawu president Mzwandile Makwayiba, referring to the executive's notice to unbind the country with the ICC.&nbsp; Makwayiba told journalists that President Jacob Zuma and his Cabinet should have realised that they had made a mistake and should have&nbsp;consulted Parliament. "Why was there no one in the Cabinet [who] realised that [and] said: 'No, we made a mistake'?"Nehawu said the ICC matter was another sign that Zuma's administration and the collective leadership of the ANC were problematic. "We would have expected the president to say it must stop."Decision initiated after&nbsp;Sudanese president's visitThe DA's challenge to the government's decision to withdraw from the ICC was heard in the High Court in Pretoria on Monday. Last month the Constitutional Court dismissed the party's application for direct access to challenge the decision. On October 21 Justice Minister Michael Masutha told reporters that South Africa had initiated the process of withdrawing from the ICC by notifying the United Nations of the country's intention to revoke its ratification of the Rome Statute, which established the ICC. The decision followed several court judgments saying that the government violated the law by not arresting ICC-indicted Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir during his visit to South Africa in June last year. The ICC wants him to stand trial on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.During the court hearing the executive's counsel Advocate Jeremy Gauntlett admitted that the process to withdraw from the ICC was initiated after the Sudanese president's visit. &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.