( File:AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Zimbabwe s ruling Zanu-PF party has reportedly imposed a 12-hour curfew in Masvingo ahead of the arrival of President Robert Mugabe who is expected to officially open the party s annual conference.News24 Correspondent Harare - A hesitant Robert Mugabe got through a whole state of the nation address on Tuesday without a single mention of bond notes or the vexed question of whether he would retire.But there was a brief moment in this 28-minute speech when anything seemed possible: "I wish to take this opportunity..." Mugabe said, sitting underneath the giant ivory tusks of his presidential chair in parliament. And then the 92-year-old president hesitated. And chuckled."I wish to take this opportunity... to wish the nation an accident-free festive season," he concluded.Watching Mugabe, few in this cash-strapped, politically-divided southern African nation could doubt that the president knew exactly what Zimbabweans were thinking.Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai had said before this speech that Mugabe's announcement of his retirement would be the best present he could give the nation. He has been in power in Zimbabwe since independence in 1980.Apart from that moment, this was a lack-lustre speech that gave little sense of the hardships Zimbabweans are suffering on the ground.Tourism is improving, Mugabe said - though the room occupancy rate in the first six months of the year only went up from 41 to 42 percent. Power cuts were less frequent too, the president said. That's certainly true but most analysts put that down to the fact that industry is running at such a low capacity that it's hardly using any power. "Government is concerned about the high-level of gender-based violence," Mugabe said. But he made no mention of the concerns that government opponents and Western embassies have raised over alleged incidents of state-sponsored violence against activists.The latest alleged victim is Ishmael Kauzani, a member of the Tajamuka protest movement.Political unrest has been on the up in Zimbabwe on the back of the #ThisFlag protest, started by Harare pastor Evan Mawarire in April. He has since fled into exile.Mugabe made no reference to bond notes, the controversial paper money that the central bank introduced 10 million US dollars' worth of eight days ago. Many here fear the notes will drag Zimbabwe back to the dark days of hyperinflation seen between 2006 and 2008.There was one nod to "economic hardships" but not in the way critics might have hoped."I want to pay tribute to our peace-loving people who have endured all manner of economic hardships since we embarked on the historic land reform programme," launched in 2000, the president said. He may have been sitting under ivory - but Mugabe appeared to be ignoring the elephants in the room.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.