Bridget.Siebert1PHOTO: supplied Dylan Richardson and Wayne Richardson, in a moment of silence, remember their father. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories PIETERMARITZBURG airsoft players decided to give back to the community, and did so by honouring World War 2 veterans and their spouses. As a military simulation sport it is just a perfect fit. We decided to work with the Hamba Kathle Shell Hole of the Moths to help them address the need among its ageing veterans. It has come to our attention that there are a lot of World War 2 and other veterans who continue to suffer - with some being on the verge of starvation, so as a sport that is rapidly growing in Pietermaritzburg we decided not only to aide them, but to honour them for the sacrifices they made. We hosted a charity event on 4 December where we collected food to donate to these veterans, and the same time honour them with a memorial. The event was named after a fallen police officer, Captain Richardson, who served in the Pietermaritzburg area. Both his sons were in attendance and are avid Airsoft players.Dylan and Wayne Richardson, also serving SAPS members in Pietermaritzburg said: Our father and his father were both Moth members and it is both an honour and a privilege to be able to help an organisation that does so much for people who are so often forgotten. We re truly proud of the airsoft community for pulling together and making a difference in the lives of those who need our help. This event will be bi-annual with the Pietermaritzburg airsoft community as well as a further one to be held in June 2017.It s our way of saying thank you to these heroes who went to war from a community that plays war. We value their sacrifices and respect these men and women greatly in our sport, and they are held in the highest regard by our players. Even active duty police and military members, who join our events are revered and respected in our community. Edric Pascoe, Major Reserve SANDF, as well as KZN Airsoft Governing Body chairman had this to say about the event: I would like to congratulate members of the Pietermaritzburg airsoft community for this selfless gesture in arranging the charity game on 4 December. As a member of the Reserve Force in Pietermaritzburg it is heartening to see that there are still people with a charitable spirit. People who have done so much for the old veterans in collecting the food for those who are living off a state pension, who can hardly make ends meet on a monthly basis. To those, who have participated from the various airsoft teams in KZN, a big thank you for your support and caring for our aged veterans. Michael Randal old bill Hamba Kathle Moth Shell Hole said: We at the Moths, in specific Hamba Kathle Shell Hole, are grateful for the gesture of the airsoft community to come to the aide of the elderly members who sacrificed so much back then and who are now struggling to make ends meet. Showing comradeship and brotherhood towards our veterans I would like to add a phrase from a poem - when you go home tell them of us and say, for your tomorrow we gave our today, our gift was great, but you must give a greater to complete the plan. We died, now you must nobly live to make man brother unto man. Ronaldo Fourie, Scarlet Tactical owner: We are proud to be associated with the Hamba Kathle Shell Hole and as a former police officer, I am honoured to be able to host this event and give back to the community and to these heros who served in our communities in war and peace, armed forces and law enforcement. These men and their spouses are heros and so often go unnoticed and forgotten in our day-to-day life. We would also like to thank all the people and the businesses in Pietermaritzburg that came to the assistance of these people who donated so freely and so plentiful from their hearts. The love and understanding of all who contributed was astounding and is much appreciated by the people who received these items. - Supplied.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.