Iavan Pijoos, News24Musnoena 'Noni' Hamsa, who suffers from a rare disease, at her home in Eldorado Park (Lerato Sejake, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories We speak to 7-year-old Rachel Ancer and her parents, Jean and Jonathan about living with a rare disease in South Africa.WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; Doctors told Musnoena Hamsa, 17, that she would not live for more than a year.That was three years ago.The teenager, from Eldorado Park, Johannesburg, suffers from a rare disease called desmoid fibromatosis.Desmoid tumors (fibromatosis) are rare benign tumours. They occur in six out of every one million people a year.Musnoena has a desmoid tumour in her neck."Doctors told me that there is nothing they could do for me. I had to find strength within to overcome this," Musnoena told News24.Musnoena has tried to commit suicide three times after she was diagnosed.Strength in prayer"I lost hope and went into depression. I realised that I have to live my life to the fullest, because there are people going through far worse than me."The girl with the soft smile has a younger brother and older sister. She says she has learnt to put everything in God&rsquo;s hands. She stays positive by reading the Bible and finds strength in prayer.She describes herself as a funny person who enjoys joking with her family and friends.Musnoena has had to make peace with the fact that people treat her differently because of her illness."I know that I am sick, but I want people to treat me like a normal human being."Her mother Chantelle, 38, is her biggest motivation and inspires her the most."To see your child going through so much pain is not a nice thing for any mother. I try to uplift her where I can on days when she is very down. I need to remind her that there is still a long way to go."Hopeful for cure She found it hard to cope when her daughter was diagnosed."At first it was very hard and stressful and I used alcohol as an escape. I had to remind myself about my other children as well. If she had to pass away, I would know that I have other children too."The family is hopeful that doctors will find a cure for her."It is obstructing the body and it is life-threatening, because doctors can&rsquo;t operate there."Chantelle designs and sells bracelets to raise funds for Musnoena."The bracelet money was to have taxi fare and to buy food. We don&rsquo;t have anyone that supports us."Musnoena&rsquo;s dream of becoming a fashion designer and model faded after she was diagnosed. Now she hopes to become a forensic scientist to help people like her. She also wants to explore the world."I really want to go to Paris, but first I want to see the beauty that South Africa has to offer."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.