Lynn.HitchcockAlwyn Ace Houston was murdered last Thursday. Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories UMUZIWABANTU Municipality is again under a dark cloud after an ANC Ward 3 councillor, Alwyn Ace Houston (58), was shot and killed last Thursday. He was allegedly killed after addressing a community meeting about housing at Ghost Town in Harding. Houston was elected at the 3 August elections as a ward councillor for the third term. Umuziwabantu Speaker Mzwandile Nyathi said Houston s murder is shocking. On 18 July an ANC Ward 1 candidate, Bongani Skhosana, was shot and killed and a 30-year-old suspect was arrested last month. The vacant ward councillor position was closed during by-elections on 9 November. A commission of inquiry was set up by the KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu to investigate politically motivated killings in the province. The political killings that are happening in this area might cause instability in the community. I am sad-dened about Houston s death because he was a progressive councillor who was working for his community. He was a humble councillor, accommodating everyone and helping poor children by donating Christmas clothes, said Mayor Dixie Nciki. In a statement Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube condemned the killing. We are deeply concerned that Umuziwabantu is becoming a hot spot for the murder of councillors and is becoming a place where no elected public representative is safe. This senseless violence on public representatives must stop and law enforcement agencies must restore order and peace. Dube-Ncube also called on political parties, civil societies and the community to play an active role in bringing discipline and climate peace to the area . Details about funeral arrangements are unavailable from the family. Houston left two sons and a wife. A case of murder is under police investigation. A memorial service was held on Wednesday and the funeral ser- vice is tomorrow (Saturday) in Har- ding. </p> UMUZIWABANTU Municipality is again under a dark cloud after an ANC Ward 3 councillor, Alwyn Ace Houston (58), was shot and killed last Thursday. He was allegedly killed after addressing a community meeting about housing at Ghost Town in Harding. Houston was elected at the 3 August elections as a ward councillor for the third term. Umuziwabantu Speaker Mzwandile Nyathi said Houston s murder is shocking.On 18 July an ANC Ward 1 candidate, Bongani Skhosana, was shot and killed and a 30-year-old suspect was arrested last month. The vacant ward councillor position was closed during by-elections on 9 November.A commission of inquiry was set up by the KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu to investigate politically motivated killings in the province. The political killings that are happening in this area might cause instability in the community. I am sad-dened about Houston s death because he was a progressive councillor who was working for his community. He was a humble councillor, accommodating everyone and helping poor children by donating Christmas clothes, said Mayor Dixie Nciki.In a statement Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube condemned the killing. We are deeply concerned that Umuziwabantu is becoming a hot spot for the murder of councillors and is becoming a place where no elected public representative is safe. This senseless violence on public representatives must stop and law enforcement agencies must restore order and peace. Dube-Ncube also called on political parties, civil societies and the community to play an active role in bringing discipline and climate peace to the area . Details about funeral arrangements are unavailable from the family. Houston left two sons and a wife.A case of murder is under police investigation. A memorial service was held on Wednesday and the funeral ser- vice is tomorrow (Saturday) in Har- ding. We are deeply concerned that Umuziwabantu is becoming a hot spot for the murder of councillors and is becoming a place where no elected public representative is safe. This senseless violence on public representatives must stop and law enforcement agencies must restore order and peace 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.