Ashleigh Furlong, GroundUpZwelethu Mthethwa (Deon Raath, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - "My name is Nokuphila Kumalo. I was a sex worker. I was 23 years old. I was found beaten to death. Zwelethu Mthethwa is accused of my murder," read a placard held by an activist wearing a white mask, standing outside the Iziko South African National Gallery on Thursday evening.Inside the gallery, Mthethwa's work is being shown as part of an exhibition titled Our Lady. The official description of the exhibition says it is meant to "interrupt the puritanical and patriarchal visual economy that surrounds imagery of the figurative female form".Kumalo was murdered in Woodstock in 2013. More than three years later, and after many delays, Mthethwa's trial continues in the Western Cape High Court.The inclusion of his work at the Iziko National Gallery initially sparked outrage from the Sex Workers Education and Advocacy Taskforce (Sweat), who saw it as "not only in bad taste, but deeply offensive".The ironyMthethwa's work, Untitled from the Hope Chest series in 2012, features a woman sitting next to a chest that is used as a dowry when a woman marries.Earlier this week, Sweat released a statement calling for the work to be removed, saying that "the irony of promoting the work of a man accused of murdering women as part of an exhibition aimed at empowering women, is not wasted on us".Lesego Tlhwale, Sweat's media advocacy officer, said following Sweat's letter to the gallery, Iziko and the New Church Museum, who are collaborating with Iziko on the exhibition, reached out to them.After discussion, Tlhwale said Sweat was given space to stage their demonstration outside the gallery and all parties agreed to have a public dialogue on what it means to exhibit the work of a man charged with the murder of a woman.Iziko and the New Church Museum had originally responded to Sweat's statement, explaining that far from promoting Mthethwa's work, they had wanted to create the opportunity for critical engagement.They said that one theme of the exhibition was to look at "unnamed women" and the "inherent brutality of denying a woman the right to her individuality and her name".Statement displayed next to work"Visual and verbal violence towards and about women are often significant markers of prevailing attitudes and ideas surrounding physical violence towards women. We cannot pretend that these problems do not exist or that artists are exempt from sexual violence towards women," they stated.But Tlhwale said the "right thing to do" would have been to first reach out to an organisation such as Sweat before exhibiting an artwork by someone accused of murdering a sex worker.In a joint statement released just prior to the demonstration on Thursday night, Sweat, Iziko and the New Church Museum stated that while art should "challenge, educate, provoke and disrupt discourse", the inclusion of marginalised people, such as Kumalo, is not always automatic during these debates.In an attempt to correct this, they decided to write a joint statement that will be placed beside Mthethwa's artwork in the gallery. Kumalo's portrait will also be included in an upcoming exhibition. The portrait was painted by Astrid Warren, and was based on her mugshot &ndash; the only picture of Kumalo that exists.Artist claims no recollectionThe action outside the gallery on Thursday night included numerous activists in masks standing with placards bearing the names and details of sex workers' deaths."My name was Desiree Murugan. I was a sex worker. I was 39 years old. I was found dead. I was decapitated. My trial is ongoing," read one."My name was Thalukanyo. I was a sex worker. I was in my 20s. My mutilated body was found in the bushes. My killer has not been found," reads another.The court matter against Mthethwa continues.Earlier this week, Mthethwa, represented by lawyer William Booth, was granted leave to have the case reopened after additional evidence emerged to support Mthethwa's claim that he had no recollection of what happened on the night of the murder. Booth showed that Mthethwa had been at Corner Lounge in Gugulethu, where he spent R2 600 on alcohol.Tlhwale has called the further delays in the trial another "tactic" by the defence and added that regardless of "whatever tricks they [the defence] pull" Sweat will be in court when the case continues on December 5. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.