Jeanette Chabalala, News24Helen Zille. (File, Beeld) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Speaking at the launch of her autobiography, former DA leader Helen Zille spoke to News24 editor Adriaan Basson about a number of pertinent issues in the wake of South Africa's recent local government elections. Watch. WATCHCape Town &ndash; The Democratic Alliance (DA) must recall Helen Zille before she does irreparable damage in the Western Cape, says the ANC in the province.The ANC was responding to Zille&rsquo;s tweet, in which she said: &ldquo;Why is it ok to racially classify ppl for jobs but not to identify ppl at a table by their race.&rdquo; (sic)The tweet&nbsp;appeared to be&nbsp;a reaction to a black waiter in Cape Town who used the description "2 blacks" on a bill to black restaurant customers.&nbsp;The tweet has since been deleted.The ANC said that Zille had failed to grasp the gravity of racism.&nbsp;&ldquo;The DA, under her leadership, has failed to treat racism as something much deeper and more powerful, more threatening and more persistent, which requires greater vigour and determination."&ldquo;Her leadership has inevitably resulted in certain parts of Western Cape feeling like a certain version of Orania, for white exclusivity over and against interests of a unified South Africa," the ANC said.Entire conversation&ldquo;Racism under Helen Zille has been much deeper. It has been responsible for who is actually getting opportunities. Who is getting contracts; who is getting sub-contracts; who is getting employed. Racism in the Western Cape has been responsible for who gets hired; who gets fired; who rises; who falls and such attitudes have livelihoods consequences.&ldquo;Helen Zille is a chief racist who does not value what this country is about. All fair minded South Africans, who know the pain of demeaning experiences of others as well as the inability to count on those who are in power to understand, must reject Helen Zille,&rdquo; the party said.In a WhatsApp response to Netwerk 24, Zille said that her words were twisted by people who wanted to provoke hatred. Zille said the tweet&nbsp;was deleted because of people who did not consider the entire conversation on her timeline.&nbsp;She said she is against any form of race discrimination and supports Black Economic Empowerment BEE.&nbsp;In her message, Netwerk24 reported, Zille said that people should be consistent."If it is unacceptable (which it is), why is it acceptable to classify in every other context according to race? We must debate across the spectrum," she said.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.