Iavan Pijoos, News24(File, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Residents at an old age home in Westdene say they are living in fear after an alleged robber was shot dead on the premises last week.On December 15, a resident at the retirement community shot an intruder three times after he broke into his house.&nbsp; Jean Marais, 77, said the burglar stood a metre away from him in his bedroom door with a screwdriver in his hand. Marais fired three shots with a Beretta 9mm pistol he has owned for 32 years.The man escaped through the window and later died in the yard on the premises, he said. &nbsp; "We are old and living in fear. We came here for safety, but instead we are being robbed," the 77-year-old Marais said. &nbsp;The chairperson of the Eeufees Oord Old Age Home said he had written a letter to Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba in which he asked for urgent assistance."I wonder if Mashaba has actually read my letter. He told me he was too busy to attend to my request," Haroon Patel told News24 on Tuesday morning.&nbsp;DA 'letting us down'Patel said he handed the mayor the letter at the opening of the Westbury Clinic on December 6. Patel claimed Mashaba took the letter and put it in his pocket. &nbsp; He said the home was in a poor state and that the security guards at the gates were inadequate. The home is situated opposite an open veld.&nbsp; "They don't even have walkie-talkies or flashlights. They claim they don't have batteries. How are they supposed to protect us and keep us safe?" Patel said.&nbsp; Patel said they were disappointed in the Democratic Alliance.&nbsp; "Almost 98% of the people staying at the home voted for the DA, but now they are letting us down."Mashaba's office has no record of receiving the letter.&nbsp; Instead, the mayor's office said the city would dedicate itself to combating crime and was taking the necessary steps to ensure the Johannesburg Metro Police Department is capacitated to combat the rampant crime in the city.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.