Thulani Gqirana, News24 In this file photo taken on February 11 2016 President Jacob Zuma, arrives at Parliament for the State of the Nation address. (Mike Hutchings, File)   
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – President Jacob Zuma has accepted the recommendation of no salary increases for the national executive, members of Parliament (MPs), provincial executives, mayors, and other top public office bearers.  The Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers in November recommended that top officials, including Zuma, his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa, ministers and deputy ministers get no increase "as a patriotic sacrifice". Also expected to make the "sacrifice" are MPs, all members of provincial executives and legislatures, all judges, mayors, whips, some members of royalty, as well as the deputy chairperson of the provincial house of traditional leaders. This means the president's salary will remain at just under R2.9m, while the deputy president and the speaker will continue to earn R2.7m. Ministers will continue to earn just over R2m a year. Municipal councillors would get an increase of 4%. Magistrates and full-time members of the National House of Traditional Leaders would get 6%. "President Jacob Zuma has accepted the Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers recommendations for the adjustment of public office bearers' annual remuneration for the 2016/2017 financial year," the Presidency said on Tuesday. In November, the commission's deputy chairperson, Matshego Ramagaga, said a number of factors were taken into consideration when making the decision. These included the responsibilities of the office bearers, affordability and inflation. The salary freeze could save up to R100m, the commission said at the time. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  