Morgan Tsvangirai (File: AFP) (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Zimbabwe s ruling Zanu-PF party has reportedly imposed a 12-hour curfew in Masvingo ahead of the arrival of President Robert Mugabe who is expected to officially open the party s annual conference.News24 Correspondent Harare - Morgan Tsvangirai's ex is now - wait for it - an apostle in South Africa.And Grace Mugabe might have got a bit more than she bargained for at a Zimbabwe beauty contest.Besides bond notes, what have Zimbabweans been talking about in the last few days?Here are five stories you might have missed.The ex and the apostle Remember Locadia Karimatsenga, the feisty ex of Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai? The MDC leader had to hand over a divorce settlement of around $280 000 to Karimatsenga around the time of his marriage to Elizabeth Macheka in 2012.The whole messy saga (Was it true they were only married for a lot less than two weeks? Had he paid lobola?) didn't do much to help Tsvangirai's reputation. In fact, it may have permanently damaged it.But Karimatsenga has reinvented herself, apparently. She's now Apostle Locadia of Nation of Glory Ministries in South Africa.Leading Zimbabwe journalist Brezhnev Malaba commented on Twitter: "Locadia Karimatsenga, the lady who was rejected by Save (Tsvangirai), is now an 'apostle'. She was expensive to shake off. Look how she glows in this poster."The first lady, the musician and the marijuana suitWhat did Grace Mugabe think of that suit?A leading Zimbabwe reggae artist has had to defend his decision to wear an eye-popping marijuana print jacket to last month's finals of a national beauty contest, which Zimbabwe's first lady was also attending.Shinsoman's manager Peter Chiyangwa later admitted the musician's choice of attire for Miss Tourism Zimbabwe was "an error on our part". He just wanted to look unique and he didn't know Mrs Mugabe would be present, Chiyangwa said in quotes carried by the Chronicle newspaper.That green-on-black leaf motif may have been unmissable but it wasn't new. According to pics posted on Shinsoman Romeo Anthony's page, he's had the jacket since at least May.Shinsoman&rsquo;s shocking marijuana outfit in front of Grace Mugabe stirs&nbsp;controversy https://t.co/Uz1NJSXc75 pic.twitter.com/Ja9HxYYSqbExam time for G40Is G40 - the faction of Mugabe's ruling party that isn't headed by VP Emmerson Mnangagwa - in the ascendancy or is it not?Zanu-PF's factional wars may be murky but one thing's clear: G40 is preparing for its future and it may be a litigious one. Local Government Minister Saviour Kasukuwere posted a picture of him and Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo last week at the University of Zimbabwe where they're both studying law part-time. "Exam Time! Finished writing Con Law," Kasukuwere said. Con stands for constitutional, just in case you thought it wasn't short for anything.Exam Time ! Finished writing Con Law . pic.twitter.com/Hg1xgC6ntfThe fruit vendor and the POS machineThis is a new one: when former ZBC newsreader Hugo Ribatika mentioned on Facebook that he'd found a street fruit salesman accepting payment in Harare with a POS machine, not everyone believed him. One of the complaints about the central bank's push for plastic money has been the fact that so much of Zimbabwe's economy is informal and therefore unlikely to have a plastic payment option.But according to the editor of H-Metro @larry_moyo, this vendor did. Moyo bought 10 US worth of&nbsp;muzhanje&nbsp;(a kind of wild loquat) from the back of a truck, using his bank card.&nbsp;An #enterprising Zimbabwean vendor uses a pocket POS machine to beat the cash crisis. #Entreprenuership #brillaint #sales pic.twitter.com/nPzCK9welg&nbsp;Zimbabwe police (it's not what you think)Zimbabwe's police force may not get the best press at the moment - but they certainly saved the day on Saturday&nbsp;for one local celebrity. Musician Suluman Chimbetu wasn't banking on his ex-wife Marygold Mutemasango trying to storm his wedding at Harare's plush Zimbali Gardens, especially since Mutemasango's bid to stop the ceremony failed in court a day earlier.Newsday reports that Mutemasango tried not once but twice to get into the venue but "security was beefed up by the Zimbabwe Republic Police, who made sure she would not step in."If only they'd stick to that kind of job.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.