Jenna Etheridge, News24Drug addict Eben Kotze sentenced to 20 years in jail for raping and killing sex worker Crystal-Ann Newman (Supplied). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The Western Cape High Court sentenced a man to an effective 20 years in jail on Thursday for raping and killing sex worker Crystal-Ann Newman two years ago.Judge Babalwa Mantame found that Eben Kotze, 32, had not shown remorse, despite apologising to Newman's family. She said the case had taken a financial and emotional toll on them."But at least the mother of the victim knows what happened to her daughter."Newman&rsquo;s mom had not known she was a sex worker.The 23-year-old mother of two was last seen alive in Ocean View on August 15, 2014.A member of the public discovered her body on an embankment in Simon&rsquo;s Town three days later. Kotze was linked to the crime through forensic evidence.A post-mortem revealed that she had died from blunt force trauma to the neck.Kotze tried to convince the court that her death was accidental. He said he had met Newman in Main Road, Fish Hoek, and that they had gone to his room for drugs and sex.He claimed he left the room afterwards and when he came back, she had a knife and wanted to stab him. He told the court he grabbed her neck with one hand and struggled to get the knife away from her. She fell on her back.Prosecutor Mbulelo Koti pointed to inconsistencies in his story and to his callousness.'Not suitable for rehabilitation'He had kept Newman&rsquo;s body under his bed overnight and not immediately reported her death to police. He tried to destroy DNA evidence by washing her genitals with antiseptic.A forensic pathologist testified that the sex did not seem to have been consensual because there were bruises.Mantame found compelling reasons to deviate from life imprisonment for the rape that the State asked the court to impose.She handed down two 15-year jail terms, one for the murder and the other for the rape. Ten years of the rape sentence would run concurrently, meaning he would serve 20 years in jail.She said Kotze had refused to accept the court&rsquo;s finding that he was guilty."This accused is not a suitable candidate for rehabilitation. He has been to rehabilitation several times for his drug problem, but continued with his drug use."Kotze&rsquo;s lover John Marius, a State witness, received indemnity from prosecution. He let Kotze use his car to get rid of Newman&rsquo;s body.The National Prosecuting Authority in the province welcomed the sentence.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.