Mahlatse Gallens, News24Ex-chair of the SABC board, Mbulaheni Maghuve. (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Parliament has acknowledged that there is an urgent need to set up a new board for the SABC following the resignation of the chairperson, Mbulaheni Maghuve.However, it says its portfolio committee on communications is yet to meet to deal with the matter.&nbsp;&ldquo;We cannot speculate on time frames. Suffice to say, Parliament takes seriously the significance and the urgency of setting up an appropriate accounting authority for normal operations of the SABC,&rdquo; Parliament spokesperson Manelisi Wolela said in a statement. Parliament is currently in recess. Save our SABC coalition said the Speaker of Parliament must call an urgent meeting with the portfolio committee on communications to start working on appointing an interim board at the public broadcaster. &ldquo;The SABC has been really shaped by improper and bad governance and it would be in keeping with that improper bad governance for there not to be an interim board,&rdquo;&nbsp; SOS spokesperson Sekoetlane Phamudi told News24 on Monday. The interim board could only function for six months and in that period the portfolio committee on communications is expected to start the process of vetting, interviewing and nominating new board members, who will also be sent to the President to be appointed permanently. Maghuve who was the last non-executive member of the board, resigned following a grilling before the ad hoc committee holding an inquiry into the fitness of the board to hold office.However, Maghuve claimed during most of the inquiry that he was not aware of the challenges gripping the public broadcaster.&nbsp;Most political parties welcomed Maghuve&rsquo;s resignation. However, they all still want him to face the music following testimony that there was interference in editorial policy and collapse in governance. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.