Tammy Petersen, News24 (Supplied ) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A warrant of arrest has been issued for one of the four men in the Franziska Bl&ouml;chliger&nbsp;trial after he failed to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Daniel Easter, who was earlier this year released on R1000 bail, was a no-show when his three co-accused appeared in the dock.The four were arrested for the murder, rape and robbery of Kalk Bay teen Franziska Bl&ouml;chliger, who was attacked while jogging in Tokai Forest on March 7.The 16-year-old was found naked and on her knees, with her neck twisted in an unnatural position.Last month, accused one, Howard Oliver, applied for bail. He said he intended to plead guilty on a robbery charge, but denied raping and murdering Bl&ouml;chliger.He claimed he had robbed the girl as she jogged through Tokai Forest to pay for his child's cr&egrave;che fees. This was after he was unable to get a loan from work.Oliver allegedly ran into co-accused Jonathan Jonas before the robbery.He told the court he had grabbed Bl&ouml;chliger from behind in a chokehold until she lost consciousness. When the teen regained consciousness, Jonas allegedly told her to hand over her personal items. She gave him her ring and watch.Oliver said he never asked Jonas &ndash; apparently armed with a gun - to accompany or help him.In his affidavit, he said he tried to convince Jonas to put the gun away, as it would "make everything worse".Possession of stolen propertyJonas allegedly then turned the gun on him and Bl&ouml;chliger. She was dragged into the fynbos where the gunman allegedly shoved her face into the ground and raped her.According to police, a bra and T-shirt had been used to strangle her and one of her shoelaces had been tied around her neck. She was bleeding from the face and genitals.A pathologist confirmed that she had been suffocated or strangled.Co-accused Jerome Moses was finalising a plea and sentencing agreement for possession of stolen property. He apparently helped Oliver sell the stolen cellphone.Easter would plead guilty to possession of stolen property for having Bl&ouml;chliger's cellphone, which he allegedly bought from Oliver and Moses.Closing arguments in the bail application were scheduled for Tuesday, but the matter was however postponed to December 28 after a delay in the filing of heads of argument.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.