ReporterSome of the boys in action at Morningside High School s first ever Rugby 7 s Tournament in aid of World Aids Day on December1. Photo: SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories AFTER the recent tragic passing of Morningside High School learner, Philasande Jimu, the school s rugby boys paid tribute to their friend by walking from McDonalds to the spot where he passed away and held a moment of silence in respect. They then headed to the school in song f or the Memorial Service followed by a rugby tournament to commemorate World Aids Day on December 1. It was both a sad and exciting day for the learners as they met with children from other areas in the Nelson Mandela Bay and shared their different stories and ideas. They might have been from all different walks of life, but they had one thing in common: a love and passion for rugby. The event was sponsored by the Department of Sports and Recreation, as well as the Western Suburbs Support Forum (WSSF) which is run by Siyabonga Dabula, Siyanda Jemsana, Chuma Kimberley and Onke Sotyato. Together, these two parties made the day for the children a resounding success. Legal Aid also came on board to show their support and handed out T-shirts and other goodies. The tournament was the first of its kind in the metro and we have received a large support base, as well as a demand for the event to be an annual event, said Kimberley. Some of the kids come from impoverished backgrounds, but that fact didn t stop them from wanting to experience a new environment and showcase their talents, which is exactly what the WSSF is all about. With the support of teachers from Morningside High School (MHS) the event was successful. A nail-biting game between the Ezee Fana Dragons and Mzontsundu High School saw the Dragons claiming victory against Mzontsundu, who never stopped pushing until the last minute. The hosts, MHS, managed to claim third place while Mzontsundu took second place in the first ever Rugby 7 s Tournament at Morningside High School. We would like to thank Morningside High School, the parents, the clubs and the schools that participated for their support, as well as the Department of Sports and Recreation for their part in making the day a success. We wish to build greater relationships with all parties involved in making this day possible, said Kimberley. Lastly, we believe that every child is a step away from a successful adult and we need to nurture our children and give all of them an equal opportunity to learn and become who they want to be no matter where they come from, she concluded.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.