Iavan Pijoos, News24St Stithians top achiever Jonathan Baker (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - St Stithians College's top achiever wants to make South Africa a better country by enabling those less fortunate to have the opportunity to invest in their dreams."They have the best knowledge about the problems they face every day. I feel like I really want to bridge this inequality and make a more equal and less divided South Africa," Jonathan Baker said.&nbsp;They 18-year-old achieved eight distinctions in his IEB matric exams. Baker got distinctions in English Home Language, isiZulu First Additional Language, French Second Additional Language, Mathematics, AP Mathematics, Life Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Life Orientation.He was among 145 candidates, with a pass rate of 100%.Of the 145, 39 boys achieved four or more distinctions.Get your matric results on News24Baker wants to pursue a career as a consulting actuary and wants to become an entrepreneur. He plans to further his studies at the University of Cape Town.&nbsp; "My fondest memories come from the boarding house, where there were countless good memories and experiences. Going into the boarding house was my best experience at school." Baker was part of the school's water polo first team and they were ranked third in the country the 2016 at the end of the 2016 season.He has a dry sense of humour and tries to find a little positivity in everything that comes his way.He said he also lost a close friend during the year.&nbsp; "I believe in many things. When it comes to religion, I'm an Anglican (Protestant Christian)." Baker said his two role models are his older brother and a former St Stithians pupil named Ayanda.&nbsp; Ayanda used to keep him on the right track, he said.&nbsp; "He told me when I was straying away from my morals and advised me on the right things to do." Baker is excited and looking forward to the new chapter in his life.&nbsp; "I think everyone's journey's different and it could be superfluous to other people. Matric and school is a personal experience," he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.