Heilie Combrinck=Jamie-Lee Daniels with some of the Share A Shoebox boxes that are completed. She still needs a lot of shoeboxes to make 1 000 children smile on Christmas day. Photo: HEILIE COMBRINCK Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Young golfing sensation from Uitenhage and captain of the Eastern Cape senior ladies team, Jamie-Lee Daniels (17), has set herself a goal of making 1 000 kids smile this Christmas. How? By means of handing each child a shoe box filled with treats.Thirty boxes are already completed and she has received funds to buy items to fill another 200 boxes, but she does not have enough shoe boxes! This is why she kindly requests the public s support. It would be great if the public can support me with empty shoe boxes. They are also welcome to donate shoe boxes which are already filled with the items and nicely decorated. That would be awesome! said Jamie-Lee, a Grade 11 learner at Riebeek College Girls High School.Her father Manie Daniels will for the second year host a Christmas lunch for the children from Moeggesukkel. Last year Jamie-Lee assisted him with the lunch and saw the poverty and living conditions of the children. That made her decide to do something this Christmas to bring a smile to each of these kids faces. The quote nobody can help everybody, but everybody can help someone is what inspired me even more to do the Share A Shoebox project, said Jamie-Lee.What is in the shoebox?Each shoe box contains a toothbrush and toothpaste, face cloth and soap, a toy and sweets. Boxes are prepared for children under the age of 14 years and there are boxes for girls and boxes especially packed for boys.Christmas lunch for kidsThe sit-down Christmas lunch for the kids from Moeggesukkel will be held on Christmas morning, December 25th, in a tent which Manie Daniels will erect in the township. Afterwards each of the kids attending will receive a Share A Shoebox present. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.