 gen Vos, Netwerk24(Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A former police officer is in hot water after allegedly leaving 10 dogs to starve at his Johannesburg home. This heartbreaking video shows just one of the animals.WATCHPretoria - Political commentator and former presenter of the kykNET series Megaboere, Piet Croucamp, and the NSPCA are accusing each other of animal cruelty. Screenshots of Croucamp using duct tape and a tampon on an injured ewe have been posted on Facebook. In the post, Croucamp brags that he "kicks ass" for treating the ewe after she lost her udder,&nbsp;Netwerk24&nbsp;reported on Wednesday.&nbsp;"Ducktape (sic) holds everything together. The ewe will live," Croucamp posted. &nbsp;&nbsp;The NSPCA later put the animal down.NSPCA spokesperson Nazareth Appalsamy said the organisation was "horrified about the mistreatment and cruelty" the sheep was subjected to. It questioned why Croucamp did not call in a vet."The animal was in a very weak condition and it would have been cruel to prolong her life," Appalsamy said."Transgressions of this nature are made worse by people who should know better, (but)&nbsp;brag about their exploits on social media."Croucamp accused the NSPCA of wanting to kill an animal that could have lived.He posted on Facebook that he often asked farmers he trusted for advice."If I had to call out a vet for every sick animal, I might as well employ him full time," he posted.He said he treated the sheep with anti-inflammatory medication and when she started bleeding he wrapped a bandage around her body.&nbsp;'You bastards, you kill very easily'It was clear to him that NSPCA officials were there only to kill the animal."The vet and the inspector struggled to catch the ewe, who was running all over the place, only to shoot her in the head."He said the animal&nbsp;had been&nbsp;on the mend.According to Croucamp, the NSPCA woman "couldn&rsquo;t believe her luck" when she heard he had been the presenter of Megaboere,&nbsp;because it would be "propaganda for her cause". "The SPCA killed the animal and left her there; job done. Now they can accuse me of animal cruelty," Croucamp said."I asked the vet if we could change the treatment if I wasn&rsquo;t giving her the right medication, but no. An animal that was eating, drinking and fighting for her place at the trough had to die because there is a law that the vet rubbed my nose in that says an animal who suffers has to die. Well, you bastards, you kill very easily," his Facebook post reads.Appalsamy said the sheep&rsquo;s wound was infected and that the ewe was only getting painkillers, but no antibiotics."The 'treatment' administered by the layperson, Croucamp, was not adequate, and inefficient," the NSPCA said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.