Nokuthula.KhanyilePHOTO: facebook Sfiso Ncwane. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories LOCAL gospel artists reacted with shock at the news of the death of Kulungile Baba hit-maker Sfiso Ncwane (37). Ncwane died at Fourways Life Hospital on Monday following a short illness, which began on Sunday evening at his Johannesburg home. A statement issued by the family confirmed he had been diagnosed with kidney failure and was later moved to intensive care where he took his last breath in the arms of his wife Ayanda. Paying tribute Nkanyiso Miya of Pietermaritzburg gospel duo Nathi and Nkanyiso said he was shocked by the news. At first I thought it was an internet hoax or that someone was playing a prank on us, but when I spoke to a few industry friends who confirmed it, I was shattered. I knew Sfiso and we would often meet at shows. He was very humble and always full of jokes. His death is a great loss to the gospel industry, but we cannot question God, said Miya. Dumi Mkokstad said, when asked by Echo how he felt, he didn t know what to say. I don t know what to say, I m actually getting emotional just thinking about it. Can I ask you to call me back another time because I m about to go on stage. Founder of Pietermaritzburg gospel choir, Sounds of Salvation Thula Mhlophe said it was unbelievable because he was with Ncwane at the Crown Gospel Awards last weekend. He seemed fine and was in good spirits and joked with everyone. I am shocked by the sudden death of a man who was so humble and who loved his family and his craft. Sfiso would perform for free at some shows for the love of music. He sacrificed a lot to get to where he was musically. He will be missed and he has left a huge gap that no one will ever fill. Mhlophe said because Ncwane relocated to Johannesburg, KwaZulu-Natal artists will organise a memorial service for KZN and make plans to attend his funeral on the weekend.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.