Amanda Khoza, News24 Jacob Zuma at the ANCYL gathering. (Amanda Khosa, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Churches need to start preaching and teaching that wealth belongs to black people, said a pastor who opened the ANC Youth League's Freedom Lecture with a prayer in Durban on Wednesday."We cannot only allow the ANC and the ANCYL to speak about the economy, we must speak about it in churches as well,&rdquo; said Pastor Moyo, at the Olive Convention Centre which was filled to capacity.He further told the more than 2000 people who had gathered there that, &ldquo;This is our time. Not economic freedom in our life time, economic freedom, now! We need and want our economy back. &ldquo;We must tell them [white people] that we want our economy back."When he prayed, he asked God to, &ldquo;Protect Zuma"."Dear God, we know that you have placed him there to be there for 10 years and we respect that,&rdquo; he prayed to a loud Amen from the crowd. eThekwini regional chairperson Thembo Ntuli welcomed the guests who included Zuma, Minister Nathi Mthethwa, ANCYL president Collen Maine and other NEC members. Ntuli said, &ldquo;We will continue to support you Mr President, even if we have to do it alone. Matters of the ANC need to be kept inside the ANC. You need to caution those that are talking about ANC matters in public.&ldquo;Let us remind the alliance of its role. Those that are torn ... we know you, you call yourselves the veterans, but they are the vegeterians.&ldquo;As the Youth League in eThekwini, we are not happy with their conduct&hellip; we need you to tell them in your meetings, that they need to tone it down.&rdquo;He also told Zuma that the youth wants free education. &ldquo;We need free education, not this so-called #FeesMustFall.&rdquo;&nbsp;The event, which began four hours late, was not without drama.&nbsp;A kwaito artist, named Tzozo, in trying to revive a tired crowd, changed the lyrics of a popular Maskandi song called, "Siyobulala uVan Dam," by an artist called ,Mroza.&nbsp;The lyrics of the song are about having fun but the literal meaning of the song is, "Let's go kill Van Damme."He changed the lyrics to "Asiyobulala uMalema, let's go and kill Malema." The crowd sang along with him.&nbsp;When the President had finally settled, he appeared to be preoccupied.He was constantly talking on his phone and reading messages. Later he was seen whispering something into Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa's ear and then again talking to Maine.&nbsp;When he took of his reading glasses, he looked very tired.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.