Earl Haupt @EarlHauptThere was an attempted armed robbery at Vangate Mall on Wednesday. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Police are searching for two men linked to the attempted armed robbery at Vangate Mall on Wednesday morning.According to Athlone police spokesperson Sergeant Zita Norman, the incident took place at 08:30 after police were alerted to a shooting incident at Vangate Mall.Officers on the scene responded to the call where the men then fled the scene in an unidentified vehicle.Norman says that the two men entered the mall from the food court side of Vangate Mall near Debonair's. They fired a shot which made the patrons scatter for cover. She said that the police then received calls from various residents and shop owners. "There was a rapid response from the police, because there are more patrols for the festive period. Due to the rapid response, the men fled the scene in an unknown vehicle. There were no injuries sustained and nothing was stolen," Norman says. It is alleged that the men wanted to rob Pick n Pay within Vangate Mall. We are doing heavy deployment (in the area). We can&rsquo;t say off-hand that they wanted to Pick n Pay or it was a sporadic attempt to rob any shop that they could get," Norman confirms. She adds that no more shots were fired, but that police are patrolling the area and alerting all other cars to look out for suspicious people in a vehicle.&ldquo;It was so quick that the people that we interviewed could not identify the vehicle. We are currently reviewing the video footage to get some information to ascertain if we can see the men who tried to do the attempted business robbery," explains Norman.She adds that anyone with information relating to the incident should contact the police immediately while imploring consumers in the area to be vigilant.&ldquo;Shoppers just need to be alert at this time. The mall is still operating, nothing is closed down and nothing is clamped down. We are thanking the community for their response. We as the police will be at Vangate Mall for the entire festive period. Community are also to take knowledge of when they see suspicious things in the parking lot to alert the police, because they are within the malls," she concludes. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.