Lizeka Tandwa, News24Roni Katz from King David High School. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Earning 10 distinctions in the most difficult year of your school career is not easy, but Roni Katz, a matriculant at King David High School, Linksfield, has made it seem effortless.&nbsp;Katz, who prides herself on her work, said that, while the year had proved to be the hardest since embarking on her high school career, it had also been the most rewarding.&nbsp;Coming from King David High School, which produced 532 distinctions of the 153 students who wrote the Independent Examinations Board matric exams.&nbsp;"It was a very intense year, but it was one of the years that I learnt the most. I think because it was so challenging, I gained a lot that I haven&rsquo;t in previous years."-&nbsp;Get your matric results first on News24But whether she had received one distinction or none, her mother Carron said this did not define her.&nbsp;"She has a very strong moral compass, she has been very involved in people&rsquo;s rights and encouraging people to accept everyone and not judge. Her school life is very important, but her school life hasn&rsquo;t defined her."The 18-year-old will be taking a gap year to travel to Israel, where she hopes she will engineer her next step and future goals.&nbsp;While some of the subjects she chose were to further her career, the King David High School alumnus said some of the subjects she excelled at were chosen because of the love.&nbsp;"I chose my subjects because it would get me where I want to go. The maths and science would get me to engineering, hopefully. The rest I chose for personal interest. I love history, I love English... I love music."Katz also mentioned how she admired South Africa's youth. She told News24 the young generation of South Africa can teach a thing or two to its elders. "The youth of South Africa are constantly striving, growing and achieving and defying odds that most people in the older generation would have thought impossible."&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.