Mandla Mahashe People with disabilities from Vukuzhambe take to the streets. PHOTO: Lulekwa Mbadamane Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Disabled residents from Gugulethu and other areas took to the streets to voice their concerns on Monday. The march which was organised by the Gugulethu Disabled Development Forum culminated with a demonstration at the Gugulethu Day Hospital and Bongolethu Mall.According to GDDF member Nomonde Mbebe, people living with disabilities are not catered for in the community especially at the two facilities where they staged the demonstration. She said that they as well as the elderly were subjected to long lines and there was acute lack of facilities for the mobility impaired. One of the most heartbreaking things is that frail and disabled are not made a priority and as a result we spend the whole day here just to get medicine. Our aides are not allowed to come into the hospital, which would be bearable if they had porters but there aren t any, she complained. She noted that the attitude of staff at the day hospital was unprofessional and that they had lost all confidence in the doctors and nurses(at the clinic). I have an artificial leg and everytime I come here, the doctors seem shocked when they have to examine me. The nurses have bad attitudes and they seem to not have any patience, she explained. She said that they were forced to march as their efforts to get the management to cooperate have all but failed. As she spoke to journalist their frustration was evident as they were refused entry into the hospital with security telling them that they had no knowledge of them having a meeting with the management. Calls by visibly annoyed councillors Luvuyo Zondani and Sharon Manata also fell on deaf ears. Manata said although she was disappointed with the attitude at the clinic, she was not surprisedHowever, the memorandum was handed over and the marchers proceeded to the nearby mall, which opened in 2008. She said: I have first hand experience of the negligence at this facility(clinic). Last year I saw a six year old asthmatic child gasping for air after being given an oxygen mask without a oxygen. At the mall, Mbebe complained that the facility floors were slippery and it was very difficult for people living with disabilities to walk there. Mbebe said that they will continue to advocate for the improvement public facilities for people living with disabilities. People with disabilities struggle to find parking, she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.