WATER restrictions and the imposition of punitive tariffs will be on the agenda when the Kouga Council holds its last meeting for 2016 next week (December 15).Kouga Executive Mayor Elza van Lingen said the water crisis facing the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro was also having an impact on the Kouga region. The Metro s taps are running dry and they have introduced punitive water restrictions. These punitive tariffs will now also apply to Kouga because we buy the bulk of our water from the Metro, she explained.She said Kouga had received a mandate from the Metro to reduce the area s water usage by 15% by the end of March 2017. Failure to comply will see the Metro imposing punitive tariffs upon Kouga. These will remain in effect until the Nooitgedacht Water Scheme comes online, which is only expected in 2019. She said an item would be tabled to Council on December 15, recommending that water restrictions be imposed with immediate effect and that punitive tariffs, as set out in Part B of Kouga s approved schedule of water charges, be implemented. For example, a household that was using 35kl of water per month and paying R354 will have to pay R578 for the same amount of water once the punitive restrictions have been approved, she said.She said if Kouga failed to cut its water usage by 15% by the end of March, the Council would have to consider upping the punitive tariffs, as set out in Part C of Kouga s approved schedule of water charges. Under Part C a household would have to pay R847 for 35kl of water. That s more than double the normal tariffs. It is, therefore, of vital importance for the financial well-being of all our residents that we reduce our water usage. The following activities would be prohibited once water restrictions have been approved:She said the Council had become very aware of the vulnerability of Kouga s water security because of our area s dependence on the Metro for water. We have borehole water, but this is also a finite resource. The Council will, therefore, have to look at other ways of increasing our water supply over the long term, including the possible development of a desalination plant, she said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.