Boipelo.MereARMANDO ISHMAEL NIEKERK Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories ARMANDO ISHMAEL NIEKERK (29) was found guilty and sentenced in the Kimberley Magistrates Court on Thursday (28/01) for house breaking, robbery and rape. Niekerk was sentenced two years impri-sonment for housebreaking, five years for robbery with aggravating circumstances and ten years for rape. The housebreaking and robbery sentences will run concurrently with the rape sentence. This follows his arrest by the K9 unit in Kimberley in September 2014 after he raped a 21-year-old woman in the presence of her 6-month-old son in Florianville, Kimberley. Lt. Sergio Kock said in a statement that the accused had entered the home of the 21-year-old female on 31 August at around 00:45 by breaking the lock of the front door and found her inside the house. He threa-tened her with a knife and raped her.According to Kock, Niekerk had also robbed her of two cell phones, a tattoo machine and clothing before fleeing the scene.The accused was arrested a week later and remained in custody until his senten-cing last week.The cluster commander of the South African Police Services (SAPS) in Kimberley, Maj.Gen. Jean Abrahams, lauded Det.Sgt Niela Antonie of the Kimberley Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit for a job well done. The professional gathering of information by the investigating officer brought a water-tight case to court. The sentencing of the suspect surely sends out a message to other perpetrators that transgressors of the law will be investigated, trialed and convicted. The SAPS views crimes against women and children in a very serious light and will continue in their endeavours to ensure that everyone in the community is safe and secure, Abrahams concluded.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.