Kyle Venktess, The WitnessA Syrian girl arranges flowers at a shop displaying Valentine's day gifts in the northeastern city of Qamishli. (Delil Souleiman, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg - Hopeless romantics went out of their way to woo their significant others as KwaZulu-Natal saw a slew of romantic gestures from lovers for the Valentine&rsquo;s weekend. The Oyster Box in Durban catered for a variety of special requests. Wayne Coetzer, general manager of the hotel, said that one request included a secluded picnic and more roses than a local florist could ever cater for. &ldquo;One of our guests requested a helicopter land nearby and take the couple to Westbrook Beach, where we laid out a very nice picnic for them. Another guest made a request for 1 000 red roses to be delivered to his partner.&rdquo;Coetzer said besides this five engagements took place on Saturday night alone, with one of the couples requesting their names be projected onto the lighthouse adjacent to the hotel.If that wasn&rsquo;t enough, the hotel added a little more romance in the form of strawberries with dipping chocolate, champagne and rose petal-covered beds in guests&rsquo; rooms. In Pietermaritzburg, management at the Olive &amp; Olive restaurant at Cascades Mall said that they had received numerous requests from patrons to have their tables adorned with rose petals. &ldquo;We really had a beautiful atmosphere. You could see that people were having a good time. Some patrons requested rose petals on their tables, others asked for their tables to be decorated before they came in and others asked us to have flowers delivered to their tables. &ldquo;One thing we definitely noticed was even though there was a heatwave, it only created the setting for the after-party which would take place elsewhere,&rdquo; quipped manager at the restaurant, S&rsquo;du Kweswa. To escape the bustle of the city, quieter romantics opted for a more tranquil setting. Byron van der Riet of the Catherdral Peak Hotel in the Drakensberg said that their guests chose to do walks and have picnics in the mountains. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.