MEMBERS of the Provincial Legislature (MPL) belonging to the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) were thrown out of the house sitting during last week Thursday’s (18/02) State of the Province Address at the Mittah Seperepere Convention Centre in Kimberley. This follows after one of the EFF MPLs Mbuyiselo Matebus interrupted Northern Cape Premier Sylvia Lucas just after she had started her speech, and demanded her to apologise for allegedly calling him a “vuilg*t”. This resulted in Matebus being grabbed by security officers off the stage as he was escorted out of the house sitting. Accompanying him out of the house sitting was provincial leader of the EFF, Aubrey Baartman, while EFF supporters who were inside the proceedings willingly followed singing and cheering. According to Baartman the statement was made during a house sitting in Douglas. The speaker of the provincial legislature, Kenny Mmoiemang, overruled the EFF and explained that no member was allowed to participate in the proceedings of the house as stated in rule 104 of the house sittings. He suggested that the matter be dealt with at the next house sitting, and argued that he had never heard the premier make such a statement at the sitting. After Mmoiemang had recalled the premier to the podium to proceed, Baartman and Matebus remained on their feet and continued their protest to listen to the address. Mmoiemang then ordered the two EFF MPLs to leave the house as they disregarded the speaker’s (Mmoiemang) ruling. That is when the EFF supporters started shouting “Lucas must fall, and ANC must fall”. They referred to Premier Lucas as KFC in their slogans. Eventually when the screaming died down and the EFF was outside, the business of the day continued peacefully. The premier later during a press briefing swore that she had never made that statement. “I really want to put it on record that at no stage did I say something to Matebus. And the worst part was that we had our last sitting in Douglas and Aubrey Baartman did not even attend that sitting. Matebus was walking in and out and at the time we were adopting the budget. One thing that we were concerned about was that this guy was continuing to object. We were actually teasing him about objecting, but he didn’t know what he was objecting to. But to say that he was in any way being sworn at is something that we don’t understand,” explained Lucas. 