Jeff Wicks, News24Chicco Ngxasana recovers in his hospital bed after being shot in the back. (Photo supplied by Enforce Security) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A Durban security guard is lucky to be alive after he was shot in the back execution-style during an ambush by business robbers on Sunday night.Chicco Ngxasana is recovering in hospital after being shot twice. His bulletproof vest is credited with stopping another bullet aimed at his back.The shots were fired by a man who stood over him while his cohorts screamed, "kill him".According to Enforce Security, Chicco Ngxasana was dispatched to a business after the alarm was activated.The suspects gained entry to the property via a surrounding fence and then forced open a window.Ngxasana, who was on patrol nearby, responded immediately and arrived at the scene in about one and a half minutes.The suspects ambushed him, opening fire on his vehicle.Nikki M&ouml;hlman, Enforce&rsquo;s Community Projects Manager, said Ngxasana had to run from his car to get away.&lsquo;Very traumatised&rsquo;While under fire, he heard the men shouting to each other to "kill him, kill him"."Chicco was shot in the leg and then fell to the ground. While he was lying on the floor, face down, they came up to him and shot him in the back&hellip; Luckily his bulletproof vest prevented the bullet penetrating his body," she said."He does, however, have a deep wound on his back. The bullet shot at his leg grazed the bone and, as a result, he suffered a fracture instead of a break. Obviously though, there is damage to the tendons and muscles."M&ouml;hlman said Ngxasana was "very traumatised" by the incident, particularly due to the suspects&rsquo; cries for him to be killed. He also struggles to talk about the moment he was shot while lying on the floor."He will definitely need counselling, which we will make sure he gets. He is, however, in a stable condition and in recovery&hellip; It is actually ironic and infuriating that he was shot due to his efficient response."The gunmen escaped with eight IMX computers and four laptops. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.