Germain Katanga. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kinshasa - Notorious Congolese warlord Germain Katanga
was back in the dock on Wednesday for crimes against humanity, after completing
a first 12-year sentence handed down by the International Criminal Court (ICC). Smiling and relaxed, the former general nicknamed Simba
the lion due to his alleged ferocity, entered the military court and warmly
greeted senior officers before the trial started. Katanga's first sentence for complicity in war crimes and
crimes against humanity was reduced in November by the ICC for good behaviour
and after he voiced regret. He was brought back from The Hague to Kinshasa late last
year to complete his term and had been scheduled to walk free on January 18
when Democratic Republic of Congo authorities decided to keep him behind bars
to prosecute for "other cases". The 37-year-old was convicted by the ICC over a 2003
attack on the village of Bogoro that saw 200 people shot and hacked to death.
He was acquitted of sexual slavery and using child soldiers. This time Katanga and five co-accused face charges of
"war crimes, crimes against humanity and participation in an
insurrectional movement”. One of the cases touches on his alleged role in the
killing of nine UN peacekeepers in the violence-torn Ituri region in the
country's northeast in 2005, Justice Minister Alexis Thambwe Mwamba has said. The gold-rich Ituri region was riven by violence between largely
ethnic-based militias from 1999 to 2007 in which about 60 000 people were
killed, according to rights groups. DR Congo itself, a country of more than 67 million people
that is Africa's second largest, was torn by two wars between 1996 and 2003
estimated to have cost at least two to three million lives. Its eastern provinces remain ravaged by conflicts between
ethnic groups and local warlords over control of land and mineral resources. Many atrocities such as rape, killing and enslavement
have been committed, most of them unpunished until 2014 when the authorities
began to take measures to end impunity.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  