Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Nearly one million children across eastern and
southern Africa are suffering from "severe acute malnutrition" after
two years of drought and the strongest El Nino in 50 years, UNICEF said on
Wednesday. Children in the region face worsening food and water shortages,
with rising prices exacerbating the situation as families are forced to skip
meals and sell belongings. "Severe acute malnutrition" is defined as extreme
hunger, causing a very low weight-for-height ratio, visible wasting or fluid
retention. "The El Nino weather phenomenon will wane, but the cost to
children – many who were already living hand-to-mouth – will be felt for years
to come," said UNICEF regional director Leila Gharagozloo-Pakkala. "Governments are responding with available resources, but
this is an unprecedented situation. Children's survival is dependent on action
taken today." The agency is running humanitarian appeals calling for $87 million
for Ethiopia, $26m for Angola and $15m for Somalia. Lesotho, Zimbabwe, and most of South Africa have declared drought
emergencies, while in Ethiopia, the number of people in need of food assistance
is expected to increase from 10 million to 18 million this year. Malawi is facing its worst food crisis in nine years, with 2.8
million people (more than 15% of the population) at risk of hunger and
"severe acute malnutrition" doubling in only two months. "The statistics are staggering," said Megan Gilgan,
UNICEF regional emergency advisor. "The situation is expected to worsen
throughout this year and into 2017." Last month the UN's World Food Programme (WFP) said 14 million
people across southern Africa faced going hungry after a prolonged drought
wrecked harvests. The WFP said the cost of maize, also called corn, in Malawi was 73%
higher than average. South Africa will import half its average maize crop after 2015
was declared the driest year in more than a century. In Ethiopia, 435 000 children were said to be in need of treatment
for severe acute malnutrition. "We are dealing with a slow onset crisis affecting countries
in different ways," Gilgan said. "The outlook is disturbing, with
little or no rain falling in affected areas." UNICEF said conditions were worse than the 2011 Horn of Africa food
crisis that hit Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda. Apart from hunger, the spread of diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid
has also been reported. Sparked by warming in sea surface temperatures in the equatorial
Pacific, El Nino periodically wreaks havoc on world weather patterns, causing
drought in some parts and floods in others. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  