Jenna Etheridge, News24Lee Adams. (Picture: Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; A Cape Town man on Monday admitted to beheading a Ravensmead teenager in 2013 so he could sell the body parts to a sangoma. Aljar Swartz changed his plea to guilty in the Western Cape High Court. His lawyer Sheriff Mohamed read out various admissions.Swartz admitted that he strangled 15-year-old Lee Adams at Florida Primary School in Ravensmead, on October 17, 2013. He then stabbed him numerous times until he succumbed to his wounds."Thereafter I decapitated him," he stated in the document handed in at court."Although I consumed alcohol and dagga during the day of October 17, 2013, I could still appreciate the wrongfulness of my conduct. I was a follower of Satan at the time."He admitted that he inflicted the gruesome injuries noted in the post mortem report.A pathologist had concluded that Adams died due to sharp force trauma to the neck. Stab wounds, bruises, and abrasions were found on his face and neck.A security guard found the boy&rsquo;s body at the school. The head was later found in a shallow grave in the accused&rsquo;s yard.Adams&rsquo; family members listened to proceedings from the benches in the public gallery, behind Swartz.The accused, dressed in a tracksuit, seemed relaxed in the dock. He acknowledged that he intentionally incited, instigated, persuaded and encouraged four men to lure a victim to Ravensmead to be killed for body parts.His confessions came after the State called a number of witnesses, including a fingerprint expert who linked him to the crime.Swartz admitted that a fingerprint found in a blood stain on the wall at the crime scene belonged to him.He also put a tissue paper containing Adams&rsquo; blood into a bin in his bedroom.The case was postponed until March 2 for sentencing arguments.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.