Iavan Pijoos, News24 (Supplied to News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The SA Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu)
said on Monday that it was in the process of ensuring that the criminal charges
against Pikitup managing director Amanda Nair were reinstated. "We are convinced that the criminal charges against
her, which... [were] mysteriously dropped should be reinstated," deputy
regional secretary Paul Tlhabang said. Last year, Nair and another employee, Donovan Denyssen,
were reportedly charged with theft. Denyssen allegedly gave Nair three company
cellphones without following proper procedure. The charges were later
dropped. Nair had previously been accused of awarding a R263m
tender to Aqua Transport Plant Hire after the company was implicated in fraud.Nair was suspended for a year and a new board of directors made the decision to
reinstate her after she was cleared of wrongdoing. Samwu it said believed Pikitup management was doing all
they could to protect Nair. "We believe that these charges against her are
serious and yet she is being protected while the Samwu members, shop stewards
and leaders continue to be victimised by management," Tlhabang said. He said their issues with the Pikitup management had not
been resolved. Tlhabang said Samwu was waiting for Nair to have her day
in court. Pikitup spokesperson Pansy Oyedele said management would
wait for the law run its course. Oyedele told News24 that the charges against Nair were
not dropped by Pikitup, the management, the board or the City of Johannesburg's
leadership. Oyedele said work areas which were missed last week on
Thursday and Friday as a result of the "illegal work stoppage" by
Samwu employees would be serviced as per the areas' normal refuse collection
days. However, Samwu has categorically denied that their
members were on a strike last week. The union said members merely "presented
themselves... as witnesses" for a disciplinary case involving shop
stewards who were questioning a recent recruitment process at Pikitup. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  