Genevieve Quintal, News24Hawks Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former NPA integrity management unit head Prince Mokotedi, who was accused of leaking information to the media, has been appointed Hawks head in Gauteng. "Mokotedi brings a wealth of investigation experience, having been in the investigation environment for quite a while," Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said in a statement. He worked as a forensic investigator and was director of integrity management at the National Prosecuting Authority and director for monitoring and analysis at the secretariat for safety and security. He had enough experience to keep criminals at bay in Gauteng, Mulaudzi said. In June 2014, the NPA suspended Mokotedi after a document on former prosecutor Glynnis Breytenbach was leaked to the media. Mokotedi denied leaking it.&nbsp;He resigned when the NPA handed him a formal charge sheet in August that year.The Hawks made no mention of Mokotedi's past in Wednesday's statement. Gauteng Hawks boss Major General Shadrack Sibiya was fired on August 31 last year.&nbsp;Sibiya and former national Hawks boss Anwa Dramat were implicated in the illegal deportation of five Zimbabweans wanted by police in that country.Sibiya denied any part in it. An inquiry however found it unlikely he would not have been aware of the renditions, based on cellphone records and him being at the Hawks offices when Zimbabwean authorities were meeting Dramat. The Hawks on Wednesday also announced Major General Nombuso Portia Khoza as its new Western Cape head and Brigadier Thembi Thembeka Dube as its KwaZulu-Natal organised crime unit head. Khoza had a Bachelor of Laws and had worked as a senior state advocate for the NPA. Dube had more than 29 years of experience as an investigator. Prior to her appointment she was cluster commander in Howick. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.