Paul Herman, News24Tania Botha, daughter Nadia Botha and son Brandon Botha honour their father at a memorial on the platform at Netreg Station in Cape Town. (Paul Herman, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The wife of a Metrorail train driver shot dead at a Cape Town train station&nbsp;last week, hopes justice will prevail if the two men arrested for his murder are found guilty."If they're guilty, I hope that they will not get away with it,&rdquo; Tania Botha, 42, told News24. &ldquo;I wouldn't want any other family to go through what we're going through. My children the same, that's what they want."We don't want Piet to have lost his life for nothing."A memorial service will be held for Malmesbury train driver Piet Botha, 46, in his hometown at 15:00 on&nbsp;Monday.Botha was killed after conducting a training session with a younger driver at Netreg station in Bonteheuwel&nbsp;last Monday.He was waiting to catch a train back when two suspects robbed him of his belongings, before shooting him at close range.He had been a train driver for 26 years.Tania said her two children, son Brandon, 19, and daughter Nadia, 16, have been very brave."They are keeping up nicely. They've been very brave but they're hurting terribly," she said."With everything being so sudden, I'm just trying to get everything arranged at this stage. I'm just trying to be strong for my kids' sake and get everything done."'Wonderful father, a real joker'Hundreds of mourners, including colleagues from Metrorail and Prasa, joined the Bothas in honouring their late father and husband on the platform&nbsp;at Netreg station on Thursday.- Read more: 'Piet won't die in vain' - Memorial held for slain train driverMany speakers described Piet as a jovial man who loved making jokes. In a light moment, one person in the crowd shouted "a real joker", causing the Botha family to laugh knowingly."That was very accurate," Tania&nbsp;said when asked about it. "I couldn't help but laugh when that lady shouted it, and my daughter is nodding her head here too. "I was at work. They were actually very good. Three of their bosses came in person to give me the news. It was very hard," she said tearfully.Support "We are going to take our station back. No matter what happens, gangs can't control our station. We cannot let Piet die in vain."WATCH: Candles are lit and flowers hung on the spot where train driver Piet Botha was killed at Netreg station in Cape Town. (Paul Herman, News24) Candles are lit and flowers hung on the spot where train driver Piet Botha was killed at Netreg station in Cape Town. (Paul Herman, News24)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.