Paul Herman, News24(File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Two people were killed and&nbsp;five injured, including an 8-year-old girl, in three shooting incidents in Hanover Park on Thursday.Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andr&egrave; Traut said all three incidents took place on Thursday morning, hours apart from each other. "A 23-year-old man was shot and wounded at the bus terminus in Hanover Park at 05:15 by an unknown suspect who fled the scene," Traut said. Four hours later, at 09:10, a&nbsp;27-year-old man was shot and killed and three others, aged 32, 33 and 40, were wounded during a shooting incident in Athens Walk in Hanover Park. "During this incident an 8-year-old girl was hit by a stray bullet and admitted to hospital," Traut said.&nbsp;The suspects also fled.Traut then confirmed that another man, 20, was shot and killed in an incident in Groenall Walk, Hanover Park, at 11:15, also&nbsp;by an unknown suspect.The injured were taken to Groote Schuur hospital,&nbsp;EMS spokesperson Robert Daniels said in a statement. EMS personnel were no longer entering Hanover Park without a police escort.No arrests had yet been made and the circumstances surrounding these cases were being investigated."This is an issue for SAPS&rsquo; Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith told News24 on Friday that the City&nbsp;was helping as best it could, but that this&nbsp;was ultimately an issue for police. "We are helping to the extent that we can, but we have 600 metro police officers while the SAPS have 22 000 [in the metropole]. "So far, there is a 2% conviction rate and nothing&nbsp;has come right." Smith said a government task team is working in Hanover Park to help diffuse tensions in different hotspots in the area. "Since the City has gotten involved, arrests went from 300 to 2 800, with a 67% conviction rate." Smith said that an arrest was made&nbsp;on Thursday&nbsp;on a narcotics charge, but no firearms could be found.*An earlier version of this story said four people had been injured. It has now been updated to five.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.