South Sudan President Salva Kirr addresses a news conference. (Charles Atiki Lomodoong, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Juba - South Sudan marks five years of independence on Saturday, with a peace deal stalled, ongoing violence and hunger the worst it has ever been. Tens of thousands have died in the war that started in December 2013 in the world's youngest nation and conflict continues despite the forging of a unity government. Violence is ongoing, including between multiple militia forces who pay little heed to either President Salva Kiir or his former rival turned Vice President Riek Machar. Although the scale of battles has eased, clashes have taken place across the country. In June, fighting in the town of Wau - now the country's second city after Malakal, Bor and Bentiu were razed during the war - forced about 88 000 to flee their homes, with almost 20 000 seeking shelter beside a UN base. Respective armies UN aid chief for South Sudan, Eugene Owusu, expressed "shock and outrage" earlier this month after visiting the town where people described "horrendous acts of violence" with bodies left scattered on the streets. Molla Hailemariam, an Ethiopian major-general heading the internationally backed ceasefire monitoring team, said he was "deeply concerned" at recent fighting with "limited progress" in implementing the peace deal. The two sides are deadlocked over where troops from their respective armies should gather - designated cantonment sites where troops are meant to surrender weapons - and are arguing over the number of states. Kiir last year ordered the number of regional states be nearly tripled to 28, undermining a fundamental pillar of the power-sharing deal. Ceasefire teams have meanwhile been repeatedly blocked from accessing key areas. Rampant corruption Nearly five million people - more than ever before - need food aid to survive, the UN warns. Over two million people have been forced from their homes since the war began, with more than 700 000 fleeing as refugees to neighbouring nations. South Sudan is struggling with soaring inflation caused by the war, rampant corruption and the near collapse of the oil industry upon which the vast percentage of government foreign exchange earnings depend. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has warned the economy is in ruins with inflation at almost 300% and the currency slumping by 90% this year. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.