Kaveel Singh, News24Flooding in Durban has claimed two lives. (News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Tow truck companies in Durban were inundated with requests for assistance following heavy flooding in the city on Monday.Following two days of heavy rains, many parts of Durban&nbsp;flooded, resulting in damage to homes and cars.News24 canvassed a few of the city's tow truck companies who all registered increased call-outs on Monday night.Mark T Towing manager Mark Feach said that, while he&nbsp;had&nbsp;not recovered any vehicles that were washed away,&nbsp;had been called out to a number of vehicles that were struck in water. Feach said that they mainly attended to vehicles on the M7, south of Durban. "It has been extremely hectic. The flooding of the roads also caused water patches, resulting in vehicles rolling over. On Monday alone, we attended to nine cars on the M7 stretch between Bellville and the Northdene off-ramp. There were five accidents on that stretch."Feach said the flooding was "one of the worst we have seen in a long time".'It was crazy for a few hours' Miami Towing manager Craig Ross said the company had attended to between 20&nbsp;and 30 vehicles on Monday night alone."Mainly, we have had to attend to cars submerged in the water. Some vehicles had water as high as their roofs. Fortunately, we did not see any fatalities. Water damage reports were mainly what we were called out to."Ross said they expected a quieter Tuesday. "At the moment, we are following up with more water damage cases and transporting vehicles for repairs. We have found that BMWs have predominately been damaged."Thorne Subramoney, the call centre manager for Durban South Towing, said they were called out to "mainly the northern suburbs"."Due to flooding, our workloads have increased. Mainly, we have seen water related damage. [There are] lots of leaking vehicles due to water going up to knee height. Even flatbed trucks were stuck. It was crazy for a few hours in the evening."Five missing Subramoney said they had been called out to&nbsp;between 25&nbsp;and 30 vehicles on Monday night."We did not see many injuries. It was more just frustrated clients, rather than accidents. Vehicles are a complete mess because of water."Heavy rains hit the city on Sunday and Monday, resulting in heavy flooding throughout eThekwini. Three people are missing and presumed dead in mudslides as a result of torrential rains in Durban on Monday.&nbsp; Searches for two other missing women, from Chatsworth and Glen Anil respectively, were expected to continue on Tuesday morning. It is understood that police search and rescue officers and other emergency service personnel attended to a slew of incidents overnight, including several reports of landslides and severe flooding in the city's informal settlements. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.