Amil Umraw, The WitnessPolice are on the hunt for S bongiseni Vumani Ntshangase (24) who is wanted for questioning regarding cases of rape, abduction and assault. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg -&nbsp;Police are on the hunt for an Estcourt man who may be linked to cases of abduction, rape and assault.The man is currently at large and could be hiding out anywhere in the country.The Estcourt Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) together with Winterton police yesterday appealed for help in tracing the whereabouts of S&rsquo;bongiseni Vumani Ntshangase (24), who is wanted for questioning in the matters.The police said Ntshangase allegedly entered the house of a 23-year-old woman at Khethani location near Winterton on July 16.It is believed he raped the woman and during the act, assaulted her with a spade. Later the same day, at about 10 pm, Ntshangase and two others were allegedly involved in the abduction of a 35-year-old woman in the same area. The woman was kidnapped, assaulted and placed in a blue two-door vehicle, the make of which is unknown. The vehicle broke down near the N3 and two of the suspects then left to get assistance. The woman managed to escape the vehicle and sought help from police. Ntshangase is known to have family in Driefontein and Ezakheni. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a warrant of arrest has been issued for Ntshangase and that anyone who can assist police in tracing him or knows his current whereabouts is requested to contact either of the two investigating officers. Warrant Officer Dlamini from Estcourt FCS can be contacted at 036 342 9528 or 083 746 2325 and Sergeant Avesh Lalthapersadh can be contacted at the Winterton police station at 036 488 8311 or 084 907 7866. &mdash; Witness Reporter. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.