Jeff Wicks, News24Brenda Scriven (62), the woman missing in KZN. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; &nbsp;A community-led search for missing Sunningdale resident, Brenda Scriven, continues almost a week after her disappearance while travelling home from work during torrential rain in Durban on Monday night. Scriven, 62,&nbsp;is missing and presumed drowned.Her car was found abandoned in Glen Anil on the same night: it is widely believed that she may have been washed off her feet as she exited the vehicle.An extensive land, water and air search of kilometres of river has been conducted by the police&rsquo;s Search and Rescue Unit, security companies and hundreds of volunteers.Family spokesperson Lee Swales said that the search would go on. "The search is on-going and private security companies, volunteers and the community at large have been nothing short of amazing. The support has been overwhelming and is one of the few positives we can take from this horrendous experience," he said.Lasting legacy"As a family, we have further decided we would like to ensure there is a lasting positive legacy that comes out of this tragedy. &nbsp;That ball has started to roll, and we have opened a searching for Brenda fund," Swales added. He said the funds raised would be used in the search for Scriven, and any surplus would go towards for specialised rescue dog training. &nbsp;"After the search, any excess funds will be used for specialised K-9 search and rescue funding. We will likely establish an NGO in the coming month or so," he said. For the record:&nbsp;On Friday News24 published a video titled Brenda Scriven&rsquo;s last moments. The headline was misleading as the veracity of the video is in dispute. The family of Scriven maintains that the car shown in the footage does not belong to Scriven. We would like to apologise unreservedly. The error is regretted.If you would like to donate to the fund see the details below:&nbsp;First National Bank Scriven Acc no: 62628400179 Code: 250655For international transfers, the swift code is FIRNZAJJ. Physical address is 1 Valley Haven Mews, 14 Browns Drift Road, Umgeni Park, Durban, KwaZulu Natal, 405124.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.