Wim Pretorius, News24 Senekal Eastern Free State (Dirkie Niemand, News24 reader) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     23:03 UPDATE  Motorists have been urged to drive carefully in the stormy weather that is covering large parts of the country - Road Traffic Management Corporation. 22:54 UPDATE  Mystery surrounds the disappearance of 62-year-old Brenda Scriven, whose car was found washed from the roadway in Glen Anil on Monday night. She is the second woman reported missing after torrential rain hit parts of KZN.  Read full story here. 22:10 UPDATE  The search for a woman, missing after her car was swept off a low-lying bridge in Silverglen in Chatsworth has been suspended.  Two sources within the Emergency Management Services confirmed that Police Search and Rescue Unit divers had suspended due to strong currents and poor lighting.  Two cars were swept off the bridge by a river in flood during heavy rains on Monday.  The search for the woman, which will see police divers and K9 Unit Officers scouring the scene, will resume in the morning.   Several readers sent pictures in of the extreme weather conditions in their areas. Dirkie Niemand took this picture of Senekal in the Eastern Free State. Izak Herbst took this picture in Umhlanga Rocks. Shuaib Satharia took this picture of hail in Walkerville Avith Kissoonlall sent this picture in.    (Graphic supplied by the SA Weather Service) Cape Town says it is on high alert for localised flooding in certain areas. Gale force south-easterly winds of 65-75km/h can also be expected between Stilbaai and Table Bay on Tuesday, together with high seas with wave heights in excess of 6 metres is expected between Cape Agulhas and Plettenberg Bay on Tuesday. 20:13 UPDATE - The Tshwane Emergency Services received a warning from the South African Weather Service of an anticipated severe thunderstorms with strong winds, hail and heavy downpours over Gauteng starting from Monday until Thursday. News24 user @pranitha7 also tweeted us this photo of a hailstorm in Roshnee, Vereeniging: @News24 hailstones in Roshnee pic.twitter.com/wCXy7MaGgT Durban – Rescue workers had their hands full in Durban and large parts of KwaZulu-Natal following heavy rain on Monday.  - Send us your weather photos and eyewitness accounts Send us your eyewitness accounts and pictures Multiple collisions had occurred on the wet roads, several vehicles were trapped in flood waters, and traffic was gridlocked in parts of the city, RescueCare's Garrith Jamieson told News24. "The best way to describe the situation at the moment is complete chaos," he said. The rain had subsided somewhat shortly after 19:00.  READ MORE:- Heavy snow shuts 10 SA mountain passes Marshall Security's Kyle van Reenen said they rescued three people from two vehicles that were submerged in Durban.   Heavy damage to property had been reported in parts of the city, and north of Durban. “We have received reports of retaining walls and boundary walls that have collapsed, with areas like Sunningdale that have been affected.” ER24's Russell Meiring said two women were rescued from a flooded building in Kingsway Road, Amanzimtoti. "Paramedics found that the first floor of the building flooded past waist height," Meiring said. Both women escaped injury. Social media users posted pictures of submerged cars. There was heavy congestion on the N2.  On Monday afternoon, IPSS Medical Rescue said a security guard was rescued from rising water in Umhlali. He had spent two hours in a tree. MORE:- PICS: Snow causes chaos on SA's roads “K9 Search and Rescue used an inflatable raft to recover the man from the tree. He was very cold but in a good and stable condition.” The South African Weather Service warned that heavy rain and flooding was expected to continue until Tuesday.  The service’s Wayne Venter said Durban had already received 55mm of rain by 08:00 on Monday morning, Margate 70mm, uShaka 50mm, and Port Edward 49mm. According to the weather service, high seas, with wave heights of between 6 to 9 meters, were expected between Cape Agulhas and Durban on Tuesday.  The roads in #Durban are like rivers #Durbanflood #Flooding pic.twitter.com/rHdZhfrKHS     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  