Iavan Pijoos, News24A screengrab showing Vicki Momberg speaking on her phone. (Screengrab, eNCA) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; The case against an estate agent, who was filmed launching a racist rant against black police officers, was postponed in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday.&nbsp;The case against Vicki Momberg, who faces a charge of crimen injuria, was postponed to August 1 for disclosure. &nbsp;She made a brief appearance on Thursday morning and left the courtroom in a hurry.&nbsp;National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Louw said outside court that the authority was duty bound to protect the dignity of all South Africans.&nbsp; She said the NPA supported Justice Minister Michael Masutha's statement that racists deserved tougher sentences. "We should move on from the past and learn to live together," Louw said.&nbsp;Louw said this way people would respect the laws of this country.'Calibre of blacks'After becoming a&nbsp;victim of a smash-and-grab robbery in Northriding, Johannesburg, in February, Momberg was filmed complaining about the "calibre of blacks" in the city."This happens all the time, all the time. The kaffirs here in Joburg are terrible. I'm so sick of it," she is heard shouting in a video broadcast by eNCA.A white and a black police officer arrive on the scene. The white officer objects to her comments and warns her to stop."The calibre of blacks in this town vary from the calibre of blacks in Durban. They're opinionated, they're arrogant, and they're just plain and simple useless. I am happy for a white person to assist me, or a coloured person, or an Indian person. I do not want a black person to assist me," she shouts."Let me tell you something. This is the type of police force we have got. We got a low calibre people working. If I see a black person, I will drive them over. If I have a gun, I will shoot everyone," she tells the officer.One of the officers approached the SA Human Rights Commission. Spokesperson Isaac Mangena said they consulted him and, given their concerns about race-based hate speech, instituted proceedings in the Equality Court in March.Momberg is the second estate agent to face racism-related charges this year. In June, the Umzinto Equality Court fined Penny Sparrow R150 000 for calling black beachgoers, who were&nbsp;celebrating New Year's Day in Durban, monkeys.Masutha said at the beginning of July that racists could soon find themselves behind bars for their behaviour and utterances. "We are hoping that by September we should be ready to approach Parliament with a concrete proposal on the table that will begin to criminalise racism," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.