Kizza Besigye (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Kampala - Hours after being granted bail on charges of treason, Ugandan opposition leader, Kizza Besigye urged his supporters to not give up their fight for a better Uganda, Daily Monitor reports.Besigye, assured his supporters, who showed up at his home, that they were not breaking any laws in fighting against dictatorship."We are fighting to put our country in our own hands. Until we achieve that, there is no turning back. If they think that putting us in prison will demorilise us, then they are wrong," Besigye told supporters.He also condemned alleged criminals within the police force who he believed had manufactured false charges against him in a bid to silence the opposition.Besigye was arrested in May and charged with treason after releasing a video in which he held a mock swearing-in ceremony to protest what he claimed was a fraudulent election in February, won by President Yoweri Museveni. The opposition leader was released on bail on Tuesday in the capital Kampala.&nbsp; High Court Judge Wilson Musene granted the former presidential candidate bail during a hearing. "It hurts that the police have been infiltrated by criminals, but these are just a few individuals. Most of those in police are not criminals, but there is a group of kifeesi (gangsters) who have tarnished the image of the force. They are led by Kale Kayihura and his colleagues," he was quoted as saying.The police, meanwhile,&nbsp;said that they were not giving any special attention to the opinion of Desigye as he was entitled to it, but warned that they hoped he would abide by the regulations of his bail. Besigye, had, according to a previous News24&nbsp; report, indicated that he feared for his life while detained in a maximum security prison. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.