SystemThe vegetable garden at the Wild Coast Sun continues to flourish under the care of (from left) Nomfanelo Cekiso, Dicember Ndovela, Beauty Qwaphekana, Vuyiswa Hlanga and Alex Nzimakwe. Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE Wild Coast Sun's efforts to become self-sustaining are paying off. Its expansive vegetable garden, established in October 2014, now supplies a range of vegetables and herbs to the resort s kitchens. Seven tons of produce was harvested in the last financial year, saving the Wild Coast Sun over R90 000.The garden spans a 60x57 metres, with eight lines of 5m width. Vegetables grown include cabbages, broccoli, onions, potatoes, tomatoes, spinach, beetroot and green peppers, while the herb garden has rosemary, sage, sweet basil and parsley. In the past year, the garden produced almost 600kgs of green pepper, which would have cost the resort R14 690 to buy in, while spinach is proving to be another excellent grower, with 717kgs harvested, saving the resort R9 177.Surplus vegetables and herbs are donated to the local schools which include Serhasheni Primary, Ebenezer Junior Secondary and Bright Future Pre-primary. In total the three schools cater for 1 500 pupils every day. A new member in the cast of colourful plants in the garden is an orange tree, grown from a single seed from an orange from Bambanani. Recently, the vegetable garden was expanded to include a rice field. The garden is tended to by men from the local community, led by Alex Nzimakwe. According to the Wild Coast Sun s environmental manager, Sonja Stroud, the vegetable garden is an environmental project aimed at reducing carbon emissions, fuel consumption, and waste to landfill. It is a natural extension to the resort s successful natural compost project which produces enough natural compost to dress the sprawling lawns at the Wild Coast Sun, as well as feed the vegetable and herb gardens. We are thrilled with the progress we have made towards optimising our resource efficiencies and entrenching sustainable practices. Our vegetable garden has an abundant supply of fresh vegetables and herbs which our culinary teams use in the kitchens. While contributing to environmental sustainability and reducing our own costs, the vegetable project at the Wild Coast Sun also uplifts the community. We are really proud of what we have achieved in the past year-and-a- half, said Stroud. - Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.