Gary Van Dyk @Gvdcapejazz Cutting the ribbon to open the new art room at Koeberg Primary is from left, Susie Moffatt, Peter Hyslop from Bishops Boys High who do volunteer work at the school and Koeberg Primary principal Shanaaz Majiet. PHOTOS: gary van dyk Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories There may be some budding Pablo Picasso or William Kentridge in the benches at Koeberg Primary, for whom their new art class will provide inspiration.On Monday 25 April there was lots of excitement at the school when they opened their newly renovated art room, and their talents could soon be spreading across the world. Pupils will soon be using the facilities to design Christmas cards for their sponsors.As visitors filed through the doors after the ribbon was cut to launch the facility, there were gasps of admiration for the state-of-the-art equipment that awaited them.Susie Moffatt, from the Bookery, explained this initiative followed on a previous project at the school that saw them getting a new library. During September last year the directors of the Peter Cundill Foundation, who provides funding for School Aid UK, were in South Africa to look at some of the projects they were sponsoring, she said. They were here because one of their projects was the new library, but what they really wanted was to look around the school and see it in action.They visited a few classrooms, chatted to teachers and they really liked what they saw. The vision of the principal, Shanaaz Majiet, the commitment of the teachers and the friendly atmosphere in the classrooms impressed them, Moffatt says. A month later I got an email to say that they would like to sponsor another project at the school and that is how the Art Room project was born. Principal Shanaaz Majiet thanked the sponsors for their support, but added that so many people played an important role in projects like these. I think that projects like these show what can be done if we work together to make an effort to provide the best environment for our learners, she said. I am grateful for having committed staff, governing body and most importantly parents who are prepared to go the extra mile for their children. Moffatt left an exciting initiative for last. I have no doubt that this art room will inspire the children to do their best but if you need more motivation then the news just in is that School Aid UK would like their 2016 Christmas cards to be designed by the learners from this school. Now that s some positive inspiration.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.