Johannesburg - Former Hawks head Anwa Dramat, former Sars deputy 
commissioner Ivan Pillay and suspended IPID head Robert McBride have 
together come out against political conspiracy that they claim is 
threatening the country's public institutions. In a joint 
statement by the three, they mention that recent events at the 
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks), the independent 
Police Investigative Directorate (IPID), the SA Revenue Service (Sars), 
Crime Intelligence in the SAPS, the State Security Agency, Denel and the
 National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), are not unrelated. "There 
appears to be a remarkable coincidence in the methods used to remove 
officials from these institutions, the players involved and their 
intersecting interests," they said. "In our view, attacks on 
individuals in these institutions are aimed at undermining the fight 
against corruption. A key part of all of our mandates was to investigate
 cases of corruption. In reviewing our individual experiences over 
recent weeks, we have discovered a convergence in the cases that we were
 working on. "A common thread is that cases under investigation 
involved individuals or entities with questionable relationships to 
those in public office. Most of these cases involved state tenders of 
some kind that were awarded due to patronage with influential 
individuals in public office." They said the manner in which officials were removed followed a similar pattern. "Internal
 documents or 'allegations' from within institutions are leaked to 
select journalists. Working in tandem with 'anonymous' sources, facts 
are distorted in the media," they said. "After the information is 
leaked, the institution in question then launches an 'investigation' 
into the accused officials, using news reports as pretext. The results 
of these 'investigations' are then leaked to the same journalists 
again." 'Snouts in the trough' They said 
that during the "investigations", affected officials are suspended and 
prevented from defending themselves publicly. They are never called to 
answer to any allegations by the investigators, while any representation
 is usually ignored, distorted or rejected by the institution in 
question. "When an “investigation” fails to reach a conclusion, 
the institutions enter into settlements with the officials. Later, based
 on the same allegations that preceded the settlement, officials are 
then criminally charged. It appears from this pattern that the intent is
 to hound officials out of institutions and destroy their credibility 
publicly." They said all of these suspension or removals happened 
when officials were investigating corruption that linked to influential 
people. Following a Constitutional Court hearing into his 
suspension on Tuesday, McBride told reporters that the reason they they 
were really there, and why some people who headed other departments were
 in the trouble was because they were investigating corruption. "With the organisation that I come from, it is brother tearing brother apart to get at the proceeds of corruption. "People
 who literally shared the same trenches are now at each others throats 
so that they can... with their snouts in the trough. "There is 
clearly an attempt, in our view, and is a firmly head belief of mine 
that there is connivance between certain elements of the Hawks and the 
NPA in persecuting us." He said the decision to criminally charge
 him just before he came to the Constitutional Court, was part of those 
"collusion of interests". The Constitutional Court heard on Tuesday that the decision by the police minister to suspend McBride must be declared invalid. McBride
 also wants the Constitutional Court to give Parliament 30 days to 
decide whether it wants to institute a disciplinary hearing against him. If
 the order is handed down by the Constitutional Court, and if Parliament
 does not make a decision within 30 days, then he will be back in his 
job. McBride was suspended in March last year on allegations that 
he had changed an IPID report implicating then Hawks head Anwa Dramat, 
in order to protect him. The report was about the alleged illegal 
rendition of five Zimbabweans that former Hawks boss, Dramat, axed 
Gauteng Hawks boss Major General Shadrack Sibiya and Captain Lesley 
Maluleke were allegedly involved in. A first report allegedly implicated them in the renditions, however a later report cleared them. Dramat
 resigned in April last year after much back and forth between court, 
his office, and being on leave, following his suspension in December 
2014. Sibiya was fired in September last year after being found 
guilty of gross misconduct by a disciplinary inquiry into the 
renditions. Following Dramat's exit in March last year, Major General Mthandazo Berning Ntlemeza was appointed to head up the Hawks. Under Ntlemeza, the Hawks sent Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan several questions over the SA Revenue Service's "rogue unit". The
 Sunday Times reported at the weekend that the Hawks wanted Gordhan and 
eight others to be prosecuted for espionage, for spying on taxpayers 
during his time as SARS commissioner. 'Pattern of questionable processes' There were also reports that former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and former Pillay were facing arrest. Dramat,
 Pillay and McBride said in their joint statement that "the pattern of 
questionable processes" had also been applied to the recent interactions
 of the Hawks with Gordhan. "They sent him 27 questions at a time
 when it was not feasible to answer, insisted on an unduly urgent 
deadline, leaked the questions to the media and excoriated him publicly 
to answer on the pain of legal consequences. During all of this, they 
did not disclose what offence, if any, they were investigating or 
whether he was a witness or suspect," they said. "To date, it is 
not clear whether the minister of finance was even named in the 
complaint that was laid with the Police by Sars in May 2015. There was 
also complete disregard by the Hawks for the broader consequences to the
 economy." The three said that they would continue to use their 
experience and expertise to investigate, fight and expose corrupt 
activities in the private and public sector. "Further, our 
actions will bring light to the true reasons for the abuse of state 
resources in the manner described above. We call on those in business, 
civil society, organised labour, NGOs and the general public who value 
and want to defend our constitutional democracy, to assist our efforts 
with legal advice and expertise and legal and financial resources."