Kailene Pillay, The WitnessAn oil tanker and a heavy goods truck collided near the Marianhill Toll resulting in the highway being closed. (Netcare911) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg -&nbsp;Two men were killed and six others injured in a series of accidents on roads in and around Pietermaritzburg at the weekend.The bodies of two men were lying metres away from their bakkie that collided with a truck on the R33 in Albert Falls in the early hours of Saturday morning.ER24 paramedics said the men, believed to be in their 30s had sustained multiple injuries and they were declared dead on scene.&ldquo;The driver of the truck was assessed and found to have escaped injury,&rdquo; said ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring. It is believed the driver of the bakkie lost control causing the vehicle to veer into the path of the truck.In an accident on Saturday evening, an 11-year-old boy and four others were injured on the N3 before the Church Street offramp.It is believed that a vehicle rear-ended a stationary vehicle that had broken down at the side of the road. ER24 paramedics treated four adults and the 11-year-old boy, who was lying in his mother&rsquo;s arms.&ldquo;Paramedics assessed the young boy and found that he had sustained a serious head injury and was in a critical condition. Paramedics immediately began treatment and provided the patient with advanced life support interventions,&rdquo; Meiring said. The boy was taken to Grey&rsquo;s Hospital for urgent treatment.The four adult patients, who suffered only minor injuries, were taken to Northdale Hospital. Meanwhile, another man is fighting for his life after a freak accident in the Eastwood industrial area on Saturday afternoon. It is believed a truck veered off the road and slammed into a brick wall, which fell onto the man who was standing on the other side of the wall. Netcare 911 spokesperson Chris Botha said the man suffered life-threatening injuries and paramedics worked hard to stabilise him at the scene. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he is fighting for his life. AN oil tanker and a heavy goods truck collided near the Mariannhill toll plaza yesterday morning resulting in the Durban-bound highway being closed. One of the drivers sustained serious burns while the other driver escaped uninjured. Netcare 911 spokesperson Chris Botha said the highway was &ldquo;totally obstructed&rdquo; by the wreckage of the truck and the burning tanker. Fire services attended the scene. &ldquo;Paramedics treated the injured man at the scene before they transported him to a specialised hospital in Durban for the care that he required,&rdquo; said Botha.&mdash; Witness Reporter. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.