Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Geneva - The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday
released its first-ever guidelines on how medical professionals should treat
victims of female genital mutilation (FGM), hoping to ease the terrible
suffering caused by the widely condemned practice. The UN health agency estimates that 200 million women and
girls have been subjected to FGM worldwide. Victims are left to cope with a range of consequences
from bleeding and pain while urinating, extreme discomfort during sex, fatal
complications in childbirth and deep psychological trauma. FGM is most prevalent in Africa - where it is practiced
in some 30 countries despite widespread criminalisation - as well as pockets of
Asia and the Middle East. While doctors in those regions have a poor track record
of treating victims, WHO stressed that global migration had increasingly
brought the problem to the West, where medical professionals have also been
ill-prepared to respond. "Health workers are often unaware of the many
negative health consequences of FGM and many remain inadequately trained to
recognise and treat them properly," WHO said in a statement. Victims, therefore, "may suffer needlessly", it
added. Underscoring the global spread of the problem, WHO's
at-risk population specialist Lale Say said more than 500 000 women and girls
in the United States have suffered from or face the threat of FGM, while about
66 000 women in Britain have been subjected to the practice. Doris Chou, a maternal and pre-natal health specialist at
the UN agency, told AFP that some doctors including in the West do not know
"what they are even looking at" when confronted with an FGM victim, a
lack of expertise that makes optimal treatment nearly impossible. With concrete data lacking, developing treatment
guidelines was complicated, WHO experts said, and the agency's report notes
that some of its recommendations are based on limited evidence. The guidelines call for FGM sufferers to receive, when
needed, psychological support and recommendations relating to obstetrics. One possible consequence of FGM is vaginal closure, which
can lead to babies dying during delivery after getting "stuck" in the
birth canal, Chou explained. WHO recommends that health workers perform
deinfibulation, a surgical procedure to re-open the vagina, in order to
facilitate childbirth. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  