Jeanette Chabalala, News24 TAC marching for the removal of the Free State Health MEC. (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – The Treatment Action Campaign has again
called for Free State Health MEC Benny Malakoane to be removed from
office. "He has proven that he is not fit for the job and he is
failing the people of the Free State," TAC general secretary Anele Yawa
said. Yawa was briefing media in Bloemfontein, following a meeting
with Premier Ace Magashule's cabinet. Issues raised during the meeting included shortages of
medicines, hospital infrastructure and healthcare workers, he said. "The premier has made a commitment that, going forward,
he will address us regarding the severe state of the health sector – but
we will only be happy when we see results. "We will also be happy if Malakoane is removed from his
position because he is killing our people," he said. Speaking on behalf of the cabinet, Economic, Small Business
Development MEC Sam Mashinini said he believed Malakoane was still the right
man for the job. "The matter in the health sector is our challenge, not
just the MEC's challenge. It could be me in that situation one day,” he said. Last week, TAC members marched to the police and Free State
prosecutor’s office in Bloemfontein to demand a rapid finalisation of
investigations into Malakoane. They called for Malakoane to be removed from
office. Yawa said they wanted to know what was delaying the case and
said Malakoane was failing Free State residents. On September 1, 2014, the TAC laid corruption charges
against Malakoane and other senior officials of the health department. Malakoane allegedly ordered the Dihlabeng Hospital in
Bethlehem to immediately make a bed in the ICU available for an ANC-connected
individual. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  