Tammy Petersen, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash;&nbsp;An Observatory businessman on Tuesday said he was baffled by the motive behind an arson attack on his tyre store."I don&rsquo;t know who did this," the shop owner said after three men walked into the Victoria Road business on Monday afternoon and set two cars alight.Police spokesperson Constable Noloyiso Rwexana said a case of malicious damage to property was being investigated."Three unidentified suspects entered the business premises carrying a black bag. The men acted suspiciously and one of the employees asked if he could assist them," he said.Set cars alight"The suspects took out plastic containers, containing petrol, and threw it over two parked vehicles and the cars were set alight."The three, believed to be between the ages of 25 and 30, fled on foot. They said nothing during the attack.The businessman, who asked not to be named, said he had no idea who was behind the attack. "Perhaps it is an irate customer. I don&rsquo;t know," he told News24.The fire was quickly extinguished and the two cars sustained very little damage. One of the cars belonged to the store manager, the other to a customer.Damage superficial"They didn&rsquo;t have enough petrol to cause more damage. They were carrying only normal Coke bottles. I am relieved that none of the staff were hurt and the damage was only superficial."A witness in the store claimed to &nbsp;have recognised one of the suspects. He was believed to be from Woodstock, the businessman said.City of Cape Town fire and rescue services spokesperson Theo Layne confirmed that they had responded to the fire, which shop staff had extinguished with a dry powder extinguisher.Anyone with information about the suspects&rsquo; identities was urged to phone Warrant Officer Warren Smith on 021 486 2863.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.