Jenna Etheridge, News24MyBoy, a 2-year-old Pit Bull Terrier, was killed with a spade by his neighbour. (Picture provided by owner Ishmaeel Abrahams) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The SPCA may lay an animal abuse charge after a Pit Bull Terrier was killed with a spade in Rocklands, Mitchells Plain.The 2-year-old dog, MyBoy, was killed on Friday and his owner Ishmaeel Abrahams told News24 on Wednesday that he was devastated.He believed MyBoy strayed into the neighbour's yard, where he got into a fight with the neighbour's dog.When Abrahams exited his girlfriend's house down the road, he said he saw his neighbour "beating my baby"."Then he dragged him out the property and onto the pavement. When I got there, the dog was dead already. He didn&rsquo;t suffer," Abrahams said."I raised him since he was a puppy. I have a lot of people who can vouch for me that he didn't bite any people. He was calm and very passive. He used to play with my kitten."But the neighbour, Brian Martin, said he was merely protecting his dog and himself.Martin told The Daily Voice newspaper he was not trying to hurt the dog but that MyBoy was on his property and attacking his pet &ldquo;who was tied up&rdquo;.He said he tried to grab the dog but got bitten. He then hit the dog repeatedly with the spade and let him go.Martin said he dragged the dog across the road and was extremely shaken because &ldquo;this dog almost killed me&rdquo;.Belinda Abrahams of the Cape of Good Hope SPCA said on Wednesday they could never condone the killing of any animal.They had received conflicting statements and evidence about the incident."We have received an eyewitness account which conflicts with what we have heard. We need to get to the bottom of this and are hoping the autopsy results will give us a bit more clarity."She said it was best to wait until the autopsy was complete before taking any further action."We don&rsquo;t want to charge somebody if we are not yet able to prove what happened." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.