Mbongiseni Maseko Residents crowd around the scene in Makhaza where the body of Anelisa Dulaze (21), inset, who was reported missing three months ago, was found in a shallow grave on Monday. PHOTO: lindile mbontsi Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The decaying body of Anelisa Dulaze- who went missing after celebrating her 21st birthday in January-was found buried under a half-built shack in Makhaza on Monday.Anelisa went missing after going out with friends to a tavern in Town Two to finish off her celebration.A 23 year old suspect believed to be Anelisa s ex-boyfriend briefly appeared at the Khayelitsha Magistrates Court and will reappear on May 17.In February, City Vision published a story about her disappearance and subsequently three weeks ago, Makhaza residents, the ANC Women s League and Litha Labantu members marched to Khayelitsha SAPS station to demand that the cops intensify the search for the missing girl. Lieutenant-Colonel Andre Traut said: The initial investigation into the report filed soon after her disappearance revealed the possibility of foul play and the case was changed to murder. The investigation into the disappearance of the woman last seen at a tavern in Lingelethu West led to the arrest of a 23-year-old suspect. The victim s distraught mother, Vathiswa Dulaze,42, said the discovery of her daughter s remains was a traumatic experience.Anelisa s uncle Ndodomzi Dulaze said: We are devastated by the whole ordeal, starting from when she went missing up to her body being found. We all hoped to see her alive again. Vathiswa said: She was taken from us too soon. My heart is bleeding. We don t know the cause of her death but at least we have her body. I hope my daughter s soul will rest in peace. The Social Justice Coalition (SJC) has condemned the killing of women in the area.SJC spokesman Chumile Sali said they would picket outside the court when the suspect appears again. We want to send a straight and harsh message to the criminals, said Sali.He said Anelisa was the fourth woman to die in similar circumstances in Khayelitsha just under a period of 10 months. Recently Sinoxolo Mafevuka was killed in a cruel manner , Anovuyo Ndamase and Bongiwe Nini also suffered similar tragic ends. We hope justice will be done in all these case. Enough is enough, these senseless killings must come to an end he said,24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.