Jeanette Chabalala, News24Motshabi Sibeko (Photo supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Twin sisters Danielle and Tracey Steenkamp started Grade 1 together, and now they've capped their educational journey by sharing a stage and getting their master's degrees together.WATCHBloemfontein &ndash; After years of hard work and determination, a 27-year-old woman is one of the youngest South Africans to have obtained a PhD degree in science. &nbsp;Motshabi Sibeko obtained her PhD in Polymer Science at the University of the Free State earlier this month.Sibeko, who registered as a student at the University of the Free State in 2007, said her record has always spoken volumes of her determination.&nbsp; &nbsp;"It is never about where you come from; it is about the work that you put in. I always worked hard so that my work would speak for me," she told News24 on Friday. &nbsp;"When I finished with my Masters, I just thought to myself that I was still very young and wanted to study further. I am very excited because I am the first to obtain a PhD in my family."Born and bred in Bolata in QwaQwa, Sibeko said the support of her parents, who are not formally educated, and her nine siblings, pushed her to work even harder."I was always the quiet one. I would go to school and then come back and do my homework."Sibeko said her postgraduate studies were funded by the National Research Forum (NRF).&nbsp; &nbsp;"If you work hard then you wouldn't have to worry about how you will pay for your studies. I travelled to Italy twice for my studies and everything was provided for. I did not worry about a cent," the graduate said. &nbsp;She is currently lecturing postgraduate students at the university and has been offered the opportunity to do her postdoctoral studies in Port Elizabeth. &nbsp;"I am looking forward to it and I am very excited. I can safely say the future is too bright, but after my postdoctoral studies, I am done." &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.