Erin Bates, News24Cape Town - The father of murdered American marketing executive Gabriela Kabrins Alban on Tuesday claimed her Guatemalan boyfriend "lured" her to South Africa. &nbsp; Murder accused Diego Dougherty&nbsp;was denied bail in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Tuesday morning. &nbsp; Magistrate Grant Engel ruled Dougherty&nbsp;was a flight risk, who could flee to anywhere in the world, thanks to his family's considerable wealth.Details of Dougherty's access to funds emerged during the bail hearing. He is a member of a wealthy family that produces cement in his home country.Dougherty, 41, and Alban, 39, were on holiday in Cape Town last year when the American woman was murdered at the luxury hotel room they shared at the Camps Bay Retreat boutique hotel. &nbsp; According to several reports, the two met at college and began dating years later.Last week the court head that Alban died as a result of strangulation and endured blunt force trauma to the face.Severe injuriesA cousin told News24: "She was deformed [after the attack]. Gabi was tortured for 24 hours. They could barely recognise her." &nbsp; Hotel staff found Alban's severely injured body. Police confiscated foreign currency and iPhones from the room. &nbsp; Through lawyer William Booth, Dougherty had indicated he would be able to pay R100 000 bail, but the amount was "very flexible" and more could have been raised if needed. &nbsp; "He and his family are worth millions. They are powerful people. The minute he is released, he will be gone," Alban's cousin Laura Baril previously told News24. &nbsp; Speaking outside court following the ruling, Alban's parents said they were relieved the man accused of sexually assaulting their daughter before strangling her to death would remain behind bars.Mother Doris Weitz said she "did not know" if she wanted to comment on how the case was being handled by South African authorities, but was pleased Doherty was denied bail. "This is a break that will never heal," she said of the loss.MT: Gabriela Alban's mother Doris Weitz spoke outside court. This is a break that will never heal, she said @News24 pic.twitter.com/4rpHTBv5rY&mdash; Erin Bates (@ermbates) May 24, 2016MT: Gabriela Alban's mother Doris Weitz spoke outside court. This is a break that will never heal, she said @News24 pic.twitter.com/4rpHTBv5rYAccused in custody at PollsmoorAlban's stepfather Alexander Williams said of Alban's bereaved parents: "There have been two life sentences handed out in this trial already." &nbsp; "We have our fingers crossed for the future. We hope that he will spend as much time in prison as possible," added Weitz who, incidentally, was a translator in the OJ Simpson trial in the United States. &nbsp; Alban's father Howdy Kabrins said "the magistrate did the right thing". &nbsp; Father of murdered American Gabriela Kabrins Alban, Howdy Kabrins, says he will see justice for his daughter @News24 pic.twitter.com/tz7ySLjhOj24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.