(Jossy Ola, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Maiduguri - A suicide bomber pretending to be a madman
blew himself up on Thursday and killed at least five people outside government
offices in Nigeria's northeastern city of Maiduguri, witnesses said. Another six people were wounded, the witnesses said,
speaking on condition of anonymity for their safety. Many more could have died but guards prevented the
seemingly demented man from entering the complex, they said. Ambulances with blaring sirens rushed to the scene in the
bustling downtown area which was cordoned off by soldiers. Residents blamed the incident on Boko Haram Islamic
extremists who have killed hundreds this year in suicide bombings. Thursday's blast comes the day after worshippers
prevented a suicide bomber from entering a mosque on the outskirts of
Maiduguri, the birthplace of Boko Haram and headquarters of the Nigerian
military's campaign against the jihadists. The military said the bomber blew
himself up and wounded four people. The two bombings this week are the first attacks in two
months, indicating the success of heightened vigilance by soldiers and
self-defence groups that have reported intercepting several suicide bombers
recently. The last reported suicide bombing in Nigeria was a March
16 attack by two women who killed at least 24 worshippers during dawn prayers
in another mosque on the outskirts of Maiduguri. The decrease in attacks, which were an almost daily
occurrence earlier this year, also marks the success of a military campaign
that officers say has Boko Haram on the run and hemmed into strongholds in the
Sambisa Forest, a sprawling game reserve 45 minutes' drive southwest of
Maiduguri. Dozens of Boko Haram fighters are surrendering, reporting
shortages of food and ammunition, the military said this week. About 20 000 people have died and 2.1 million made
refugees in Boko Haram's nearly 7-year uprising to create an Islamic state. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  