<Sarah Jones (17) and her younger sister Hope (8), who was born with congenital myopathy, which affected all her voluntary muscles. This plucky eight-year-old heroine with a poignant story joined more than 1 000 young entrants in the SPAR Little Ladies Race on Monday, which was a curtain raiser to the SPAR Women s Challenge on Saturday. Photo: SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Every entrant running in Saturday s SPAR Women s Challenge will bring a dream to provide around-the-clock care for terminally ill children one step closer to reality.One of the event s two beneficiaries, Northwood Children s Hospice (NCH) in Mount Croix, was founded in 2010 to provide support, care and information for their little patients and their families. We see the care that we give as a kiss in the pocket for children to carry as long as they need it, said centre director and founder Maureen Lamb.It currently is a day centre, but are fund-raising tirelessly to expand the operation into a full-time one, with a team of medical professionals on hand to offer both medical skills and palliative care.She said proceeds from the Women s Challenge would contribute to the centre s Brick Challenge, which drives fundraising for the building of three patient wings needed for the little patients who need to stay and rest onsite. The gifts we receive from the work we do cannot be measured in human terms. However, the love and expressions of support we receive from the community always leaves us with warmth in our hearts. The Association for Persons with Physical Disabilities (APD) in Nelson Mandela Bay is the second beneficiary. SPAR Eastern Cape marketing director Abri Swart said they were proud to be associated with worthy causes such as NCH and APD. We like the fact that our participants feel a sense of accomplishment in knowing that the race has assisted us in giving back to the community. The SPAR Women s Challenge takes place from Pollok Beach on Saturday. Enter online by following the link on www.spar.co.za or pick up an entry form from a SPAR in your area.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.