Jeff Wicks, News24Khaleesi when her rescuers found her. (Photo supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A dog rescued from the brink of death in Umbumbulu has been given a home and a new name that embodies her warrior spirit.The stray &ndash; who had been crippled by mange, a skin infection and biliary &ndash; is now the picture of health and has been named Khaleesi, after the queen in the popular series Game of Thrones as a tribute to her will to live.Amanzimtoti SPCA Manager Tracey Girling said the hound had been found at the roadside on the R603 in Umbumbulu five weeks ago."She was very depressed and very swollen and you could hardly recognise what kind of dog she was. Our vet diagnosed her with a severe case of mange and a skin infection and we had to treat that for eight weeks," Girling said."We were inundated with people who wanted to help and we had a lot of financial aid with people funding&hellip; and we had companies donating food, supplements and medication."&lsquo;I had to take her home&rsquo;Girling said that so remarkable was the dog's recovery that she was put up for adoption, and would continue her treatment in her new home.That home was found with Karen Wadsworth-Borain who had cared for Khaleesi as a volunteer."When she was brought in to the SPCA I saw a picture of her and I felt compelled to try and help. It was never my attention to adopt her," she said. A happy Khaleesi with her new family. (Photos supplied)"I have been visiting her every day and eventually I couldn't lie to myself anymore and I had to take her home. My heart would have been shattered if she had gone home with someone else," she added.Wadsworth-Borain said now she wakes up to slobber and a wagging tail every morning."I have three other rescue dogs and they all love her; it's incredible how quickly they have bonded. She's very happy and her tail hasn't stopped wagging. It is as if she has lived here all along," she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.