Jeanette Chabalala, News24 (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – Members of the Treatment Action Campaign on
Thursday started their march to the SA Police Service (SAPS) and the Free State
Prosecutors Office in Bloemfontein to demand a rapid finalisation of
investigations into charges laid against Health MEC Benny Malakoane. A small group of marchers, led by the police, sang and
danced and also called for the removal of Malakoane from office. "We want to know what is delaying the case. No one is
above the law. We are calling for him to be removed because he is failing the
people of the Free State," said TAC general secretary Anele Yawa. On September 1, 2014, the TAC laid corruption charges
against Malakoane and other senior officials of the health department. This after he allegedly ordered the Dihlabeng hospital in
Bethlehem to make an ICU bed immediately available in order to admit an
ANC-connected individual. An article published in the Mail & Guardian on July 4,
2014, stated that other patients waiting to be admitted to the ICU were dropped
in order to make space for the ANC man. An unnamed doctor quoted in the article claimed that
hospital staff were told to make space for the ailing man because Malakoane had
promised the man's family that he would be admitted to ICU. The ANC man was admitted to the unit, despite the fact that
he did not qualify, as he was in the last stages of a chronic condition and
unlikely to recover. "The ICU bed is scarce and expensive resource. The MEC
stole it from someone in need to give it to the relative of Minister Mosebenzi
Zwane in exchange for political favour," Yawa said. "Just like President [Jacob] Zuma, who lied in
Parliament that he did not use state resources to build his Nkandla home, Benny
has also lied that the bed was not given to Minister Zwane’s relative." (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) (Jeanette Chabalala, News24)    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  