Brian Ligomeka, News24 Correspondent iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tsangano – The United Nations has expressed concern over human rights abuses being committed in the ongoing armed clashes between Mozambique national security forces and residue militia of former rebel group, Renamo. In a statement, the UN human rights office revealed that it had received reports of rampant human rights abuses being perpetrated by the two warring sides. "Human rights violations, including cases of enforced disappearances and summary executions have also been reported,” the statement quoted Rupert Colville, spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights as saying. Colville said that at least 14 Renamo officials had so far been killed or abducted by unidentified individuals or groups since the beginning of the year. Sniper attacks He said the situation was so serious that in January this year, there was an assassination attempt on Renamo secretary seneral and legislator Manual Bissopo. "Security forces have been accused of summary executions, looting, destruction of property, rape, ill-treatment, and other human rights violations," Colville said. He also accused Renamo of attacking police and military infrastructures and committing human rights abuses and violations against civilians perceived to be sympathisers of the Frelimo ruling party. The former rebel group which became the main opposition party at the end of the 16-year civil war in 1992, was also accused of carrying out sniper attacks on some roads, resulting in a number of casualties. Meanwhile, Mozambique President Felipe Nyusi on Monday last week acknowledged traces of instability in some parts of his country, saying the development had forced some citizens to seek asylum in Malawi. The Mozambican leader said his administration was devising means to ensure a return to peace so that its displaced nationals could return home.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  