Teboho.SetenaTHE Welkom police are investigating an incident in which an ANC member of the Free State Legislature allegedly hit and killed a pedestrian with his luxury vehicle in the Odendaals rus township of Kutlwanong. Express has reliably learnt the culprit, whose identify is known to this publication, had not been arrested at the crime scene.The deceased, Richard Senatla (59), was reportedly heading to his house in K6 section in Kutlwanong when the speeding MPL allegedly hit and instantly killed him on the R34 Road, which also networks with Kroonstad and Welkom. The fatal incident reportedly happened on 20 April at around 21:45. Senatla s older sister Masabata Masunyane (62) said her brother had left their parents home with some groceries whereafter the accident took place. She said the suspect had then contacted the family and had offered a cow and coffin for the burial of the victim whose funeral was held last Saturday (30/04). Lt. Malebo Khosana, the Thabong police spokesperson, has confirmed the incident and said that a case of culpable homicide was being investigated. He said the deceased had been declared dead by paramedics on arrival at the scene. Khosana said police found the suspect s vehicle, a white Mercedes-Benz, at the scene of the accident. The suspect has not been arrested as police are still investigating the matter, said Khosana.The case will be referred to the senior public prosecutor who will determine whether there is enough evidence to warrant a prosecution. The suspect has not yet been charged, Khosana explained.A grief-stricken Masunyane says the ANC member of the Free State Legislature told the family that he was trying to avoid an oncoming vehicle when he swerved to the side of the road and hit the deceased. She says the suspect told them that the driver of the oncoming vehicle had his lights on bright and was driving on the wrong side of the road. Masunyane has accused the police of failing to investigate the matter properly and ascribed their failure to arrest him to political interference. Parts of the victim s skull were found scattered on the road. After hearing evidence in the lengthy trial, Judge Louw Pienaar found that Morule had been under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. Morule s attorney, Nico Naude, submitted during the trial that by giving Mtilwa s family R13 000 his client showed remorse. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.