Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 Yanga Tise, Ongeziwe Xingwana, teacher Bassier Noordien, Maryam smith and Tristan Webber. PHOTOS: Samantha Lee Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories West End Primary School in Lentegeur now have a library worth about R350 000.The colourful container library stands loud and proud at the front of the school in Merrydale Avenue following a donation from the Avbob Foundation.The library was dedicated on Wednesday 18 May at the school.This is the 31st container library donated by the foundation.School principal Clive Arries says the container came fully furnished with 2500 books.He thanked the foundation for their partnership with the school.Shahiem Van Nelson, a school governing body representative, thanked the foundation on behalf of the body. This education hub will benefit the community greatly. Libraries become the cornerstone of our community and give people the opportunity to empower themselves through literacy. This is important if we want to compete with the Model C schools or help the community, says Van Nelson. Thank you for choosing our school. It will be a great help not only for us, but for the whole community. Various education department officials from both national and local offices also attended the event.Circuit manager for the Western Cape Education Department, Faldielah Chotia, says as a former librarian, she is passionate about literacy, reading and libraries. I feel every school should have a library. Recent research has shown that learners at a school with a library perform 20% better than those at a school without a library, she says.She applauded the foundation for choosing the right school for the library and assured them it would be utilised effectively. Thank you for partnering with the department of basic education and bridging the gap. The passport out of poverty is education and by putting a book in the hand of every learner, you are making a great impact. Avbob Group CEO Frik Rademan says the 31 libraries have been donated over a span of five years. I have no doubt that great leaders will emerge from this school, he says.He also thanked the education department for allowing them to partner with the school. To the children I want to say, you can achieve whatever you set your mind to. Never believe you are not as good as children from affluent areas. The foundation also donated a podium to the school.Arries says the library will be open well after school hours and will allow for children to take books home.He urged pupils to look after the library and the books.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.