Azali Assoumani (AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mramani -Former coup leader Azali Assoumani was elected
as president of Comoros, according to provisional results released on Thursday,
after last month's election was partially re-run due to violence and
"irregularities". In the re-run at 13 polling stations, Assoumani beat Vice
President Mohamed Ali Soilihi by 2 271 votes to 1 308, the electoral commission
said, confirming his narrow victory in April. Two percent of the electorate were able to vote again
Wednesday on Anjouan, one of the three main islands of the archipelago nation
set off the east coast of Africa. Hundreds of people waited in line during the day as armed
security forces stood guard to ensure polling was smooth. Last month, voting on Anjouan was tarnished by broken
ballot boxes, interruptions in voting, accusations of ballot stuffing and some
incidents of violence. "I am very satisfied," Assoumani, who was
president from 1999 to 2006, told AFP after the provisional count. Soilihi, who is known as Mamadou, made no immediate
comment. His spokesperson said that his campaign remained
confident of securing victory when the Constitutional Court releases the
official result. The provisional result was announced after tear gas was
used overnight to disperse some Assoumani supporters. The country's Chief of Staff Youssouf Idjihadi said the
army deployed 200 soldiers on Anjouan. In Mramani in the island's south, where voting had to be
discontinued last month after a crush of voters, soldiers were on duty outside
one school where ballots were cast. Voting passed off without any major incident, according
to an AFP journalist. Assoumani took 40.98% of the nationwide vote in April,
just ahead of Soilihi, the ruling party's presidential candidate, who picked up
39.87%. History of coups Assoumani first came to power in 1999 after ousting
acting president Tadjidine Ben Said Massounde in a coup. He then won the presidential election three years later,
stepping down when his term ended in 2006. If the result is confirmed, the presidential inauguration
is scheduled for May 26. "I expect concrete benefits for my vote: a decent
price for cloves, work for my children and food at affordable prices,"
said Idrissa Ahmada, a farmer and father of nine before polls closed. The three islands that make up the Comoros - Anjouan,
Grande-Comore and Moheli - have a total population of just under 800 000
people, nearly all of whom are Sunni Muslims. The fourth island of Mayotte voted against independence
and is still governed by France. Allegations of fraud have beset the election process, and
Soilihi rejected the April result. After the first-round vote in February, 19 of the 25
candidates complained about fraud and demanded a recount that was denied by the
courts. The first round took place only on Grande-Comore island,
in line with electoral rules to choose the president on a rotating basis from
the three islands. The April 10
run-off was nationwide. Comoros' electoral system was established in 2001 after
about 20 coups or attempted takeovers, four of which were successful, in the
years following independence from France in 1975. Assoumani is set to take over from outgoing President
Ikililou Dhoinine, who completed his five-year term in office. Comoros exports vanilla, cloves and ylang-ylang perfume
essence, but poverty is widespread. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  