Jenni Evans, News24(File, Twitter) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Watch as Speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete orders Public Order Police to remove EFF MPs from the chamber.WATCHCape Town -&nbsp;The EFF heckled recently sworn-in ANC MP Sfiso Buthelezi during his maiden speech in Parliament on Wednesday, saying he was just there to replace the deputy finance minister."We know very well that he was deployed to replace a deputy minister here," said EFF MP Floyd Shivambu.Buthelezi's first speech was during the debate on the Treasury's budget vote and although he may have been sworn in quietly in March, Wednesday was a noisy affair."He must behave here because the Guptas have gone," said Shivambu, after Buthelezi took a dig at the opposition for being disrespectful. At the height of the Gupta "state capture" allegations, rumours swirled that Deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas would be removed after he confirmed a Financial Times report that he was offered the job of finance minister a few weeks before former finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene was suddenly removed. Jonas said he had turned it down on the grounds that only President Jacob Zuma could appoint ministers. Zuma told Parliament that people should ask Jonas himself.In December Zuma removed Nene from the post and replaced him with ANC backbencher Des van Rooyen. After a weekend of outrage, Van Rooyen was replaced by Pravin Gordhan, who had occupied the post previously.The allegations on the Gupta offers emerged in March. The Guptas denied making the job offers.The ANC has since invited others to tell them if they too had been approached by the businessmen after a claim by former MP Vytjie Mentor that she was offered the job of Public Enterprises Minister. She said she turned it down and alleged that Zuma walked her out of the Guptas' home in Saxonwold. Zuma responded by saying he did not remember her.Buthelezi seemed unshaken by the EFF's interjections on Wednesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.