Jeanette Chabalala, News24 (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – A man who was sentenced to life in prison
for a crime the Supreme Court of Appeal says he should never have been
convicted of, is finally a free man. This after he had already served 10 years
in jail. The Supreme Court of Appeal set aside Marcus Nndateni
Mulaudzi's murder and armed robbery conviction on Friday. Mulaudzi was convicted by the Limpopo High Court on
August 22 2006. He was found guilty of murder and robbery with aggravating
circumstances. He was sentenced to life in prison for murder and 10
years for robbery. Mulaudzi, along with three other people who were not part
of his appeal, were charged with murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances
and attempted murder at the time. But the SCA found that the first accused who testified
against Mulaudzi was a poor witness who went to "great lengths not only to
minimise his role at the expense of the appellant but also to exonerate
himself". It further said the first accused was the only witness
who gave incriminating evidence against Mulaudzi at the trial. Witness struck in
the head "In my view there is nothing inherently improbable
about the appellant's version to warrant its rejection as false beyond
reasonable doubt. "In the result I am satisfied that the evidence of
the first accused was, in its entirety, unworthy of credence for the reasons
stated above and thus should not have been relied upon to convict the
appellant. The State, therefore, failed to discharge the onus resting on it and
the appellant should have been acquitted," the SCA said. According to evidence by Masindi Ramusetheli, the
deceased's mother and also the complainant in relation to the attempted murder,
she was disturbed by a commotion that occurred in the garage during the early
evening of July 25 2005. She rushed to the garage and found two men, one of whom
was the first accused. At that stage the deceased had already been shot. When she tried to intervene, she was struck twice in the
head with an iron bar. However, during the trial, the first accused alleged that
he was party to a conspiracy involving his co-accused in terms of which it was
agreed that they would rob the deceased of his money. He alleged that his role was to point out the deceased's
homestead to the second and third accused, Mulaudzi, while the fourth accused's
role was to supply the firearm to be used during the robbery. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  