Jenni Evans, News24 (YouTube) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Speaking during Freedom Day celebrations, President Jacob Zuma said government was introducing programmes that would ensure black people also played a role in the economy.
WATCH Cape Town - It was a disgrace that Deputy President
Cyril Ramaphosa was letting the ANC take credit for providing anti-retrovirals
to HIV-positive people, DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen said in Parliament on
Wednesday. "It's an absolute disgrace, colleagues, a disgrace
that they can try and take credit for the ARV fight." He said just as the ANC was not doing anything about
President Jacob Zuma, it had "sat on its hands" when then president
Thabo Mbeki resisted the provision of ARVs to HIV-positive people. He said the Mbeki administration's decision led to deaths
of 300 000 people "because it did not have the guts to take on the
president”. Steenhuisen was referring to Mbeki's resistance to
the introduction of ARVs on the grounds that there was no proof that HIV caused
Aids. Mbeki felt that poverty was the true cause of Aids and
believed that alleviating this and proving proper nutrition was a better
approach. Lobby group the Treatment Action Campaign secured a Constitutional
Court judgment to force the government of the day and then-health minister,
Manto Tshabalala, to allow the provision of ARVs. The government has since introduced ARVs and has been
lauded for its programme, with the arrival of Aaron Motsoaledi as health
minister heralding an about-turn in its approach. Turning his attention to Zuma, Steehhuisen said the
president had undermined Parliament and treated the house with contempt. "There is no bridge that this president won't double
cross to protect himself. "On August 3 voters can have the opportunity to chop
the ugly head of impunity, and chop it they will," he said as the debate
on the budget vote for the presidency came to a close.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.