Tammy Petersen, News24(Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - An eyewitness saw the two men accused of murdering teenager Sinoxolo Mafevuka dragging her towards the toilets where her body was later&nbsp;found, the Khayelitsha Magistrate&rsquo;s Court heard on Monday.A new witness approached the police last week and gave a sworn affidavit about what he saw that night, investigating officer Constable Isaac Tshabalala said.He said he knew both men, who were from the area. The witness said he had been returning from a local tavern at 00:30 on March 2 and was walking to a garage near SST Block in Town Two, when he heard a woman scream.The two men, who may not be named, are applying for bail. They face charges of raping and killing 19-year-old Mafevuka. They are cousins of Mafevuka&rsquo;s boyfriend.The witness saw one of the men pulling her by her arms. The other had his hand over her face, the witness said in his statement. One of the men wore a blue jacket and dark sunglasses."He didn&rsquo;t want them to see him and he hid himself behind the shacks. He had a clear view of what was happening because there was a light close by. He said he knew [them] from the area," the investigating officer told the court.He heard the next day that Mafevuka&rsquo;s body had been found in the communal toilet.Mafevuka's naked body was found in the ablution facilities, a short walk from the shack where she lived with her brother. Her clothing had been stuffed into the cistern.The two suspects, aged 21 and 26, were arrested two weeks after the 19-year-old's body was found.The witness, who said he was sober when he saw what happened, came forward after a police informant encouraged him to make a statement to the authorities.The hearing continues on May 19.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.