Amanda Khoza, News24SA Can branch manager Andreas Mathios helped reunite "Jack", a deaf Jack Russel, with his owner Lynley Watson. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; It was an emotional reunion for Hillcrest dog owner, Lynley Watson, whose deaf dog, Jack, was rescued after falling 20 metres off a cliff.On April 20 Watson met up with her friend to take their six dogs, including Jack, for a morning walk.&ldquo;They were all on leashes and he [Jack] was jumping over all the other dogs, even though he is a powerfully built chap.&rdquo;Watson said somehow Jack got tangled and escaped from his leash.&ldquo;He jumped once, twice and over the cliff,&rdquo; said Watson adding that she froze as she thought her dog had plunged to his death in Giba Gorge.&ldquo;I was so hysterical, I went to the cliff and looked over and he was not there. I called for him but there was no response. My friend said we should go back home and lock up the other dogs and come back.&rdquo;Search for JackWhen Watson and her friend got home, they called community crime network, SA CAN, and asked them to assist in the search for her dog.&ldquo;They mobilised the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) and they went down there and there was no dog.&rdquo;SA CAN branch general manager, Andreas Mathios, said residents mobilised the Winston Park Guardians and volunteers from Rescue Tech to search for Jack.&ldquo;They climbed down the ropes and whistled but he was not there. We looked for about six hours and we couldn&rsquo;t find him so we decided to abort the search.&rdquo;Mathios said the next morning a member of SA CAN, sitting at home, spotted the dog on the cliff and contacted them.&ldquo;We rushed and found him a kilometre from where he had fallen off. He was full of beans and it was rewarding to see him reunited with his owner. It makes it all worth it,&rdquo; he said.A miracleKloof and Highway SPCA spokesperson, Lisa Morck, said inspector Petra Abrams and Petros Simamane from the Kloof and Highway SPCA also helped search for Jack.&ldquo;We were astonished Jack suffered no injuries after the horrific fall. It is always so heart-warming to receive the happy news when beloved pets are reunited with their families once again.&rdquo;Watson said she burst into tears when she saw Jack.&ldquo;He was howling. I think he was also emotional and beside himself. When we got home, I gave him breakfast and he slept the whole day.&rdquo;Watson thought Jack had died. &ldquo;He is an old dog and he is deaf. It is a miracle that he made it alive. I am so grateful,&rdquo; she said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.