Mbongiseni MasekoA Grade 10 learner was rushed to hospital after he was severely stabbed in what was allegedly a gangster related fight on Monday morning.The learner from Bulumko Secondary School in Khayelitsha cannot be named to protect his family.He was allegedly stabbed multiple times enroute to school.Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Debbie Schafer, MEC for Education, said the learner was allegedly stabbed by a community member outside the premises of the school shortly after 8am.She said the victim was brought to the admin block by other learners and the ambulance rushed him to hospital for medical assistance.She also said the police also rushed to the school. The WCED is always concerned about any violence affecting our learners be it inside the school premises or outside. This kind of activity around our schools is completely unacceptable. The WCED are working together with our various stakeholders, including Safe Schools, to improve the safety of learners and educators affected by gang violence. Learners are encouraged to use the Safe Schools call centre to report violence or abuse, Shelver said. She also said many of these incidences take place off school premises and that they require the assistance of law enforcement agencies such as the SAPS; as well as the support of parents and the community who need to encourage their children to refrain from violence and anti-social behaviour. The WCED cannot take sole responsibility for incidents that occur off school premises. We will continue to engage with the SAPS when it comes to stepping up law enforcement around our schools, she added.A reliable source at the school who wished to remain anonymous said there was chaos on Tuesday morning when we called her and that she was not sure if classes were going to take place.Shelver also said a school psychologist was sent to offer assistance and support on Monday. Police could not be reached for comment.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.