Amanda Khoza, News24KwaZulu-Natal ANC chairman Senzo Mchunu. Picture: Tebogo Letsie Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - The South African Communist Party in the Eric Stalin Mtshali District has voiced its concern over what it calls "reckless handling of politics" in KwaZulu-Natal. The party said in a statement it was worried about rumours that Premier Senzo Mchunu was on Monday expected to resign after the party allegedly asked him to&nbsp;step down&nbsp;on Friday. While the ANC has remained&nbsp;tight-lipped on the matter, Mchunu's absence from the National Prayer Day in Durban on Sunday further fuelled speculation. A source told News24 that the party had called Mchunu and asked him to attend in a last minute attempt to save face, but he allegedly refused. News24 understands that Mchunu was at home on Sunday. The SACP urged the ANC to act responsibly as the latest developments could see the province sliding into political, social and economic instability.Disturbing development"There appears to have a reckless handling of politics in the province. KwaZulu-Natal has always been considered to be a very stable province after emerging from a highly volatile and violent era."While we were enjoying a stable government... We are now hearing a very disturbing development in the form of possible recall of the Premier."The SACP said, while it recognised that recalling any ANC deployee was the party's prerogative, "once a person has been elevated to the position of the premier who is elected by all parties, [it] immediately becomes an interest of all in the province"."We are calling for the alliance leaders to be responsible and direct all efforts to an overwhelming victory of the ANC and refrain from acts that are going to divide the movement and impact negatively on our campaign for the success of the ANC in this province."The SACP called for unity and for alliance partners to rather focus on the elections and not to destabilise or create further divisions.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.