Jeanette Chabalala, News24Peter Frederiksen (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein &ndash; More than 1 600 firearms were seized by the Hawks at a gun shop in Bloemfontein, owned by Danish national Peter Frederiksen who is accused of collecting women's genitals and storing them in his freezer, Free State police said. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;The firearms were confiscated on Thursday on suspicion that Frederiksen might have used them for other crimes, said police spokesperson Brigadier Billy Jones. &nbsp;About 75 firearms had no valid licenses. &nbsp;Jones said explosives, which include hand grenades and rock breakers commonly used for ATM bombings, were also confiscated. &nbsp;"Our ongoing investigation into this matter will [determine] whether the individual was involved in other criminal activities and whether any of the firearms were used in the commission of crime by other people," he said. &nbsp;Frederiksen was arrested on September 17 last year after 21 clitorises were found in the freezer of his Langehoven Park home in Bloemfontein. &nbsp;State witness killedHe faces charges of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm, manufacturing, distributing and possessing child pornography, conspiracy to murder and bigamy.He is also being investigated for the murder of his wife, 28-year-old Anna Matseliso Molise, who was gunned down outside her home in Maseru, Lesotho. Following his arrest, Frederiksen allegedly hired wheelchair-bound Motlatsi Moqeti, 31, to have Molise killed.Molise would have been a key State witness in the case against her husband.&nbsp;During cross-examination by prosecutor Amanda Bester, Frederiksen told the court that he learned of his wife's death through the media.Frederiksen is expected to appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on June 15. &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.