Johannesburg – Despite her Yorkshire Terrier being missing
for months on end, Doreth le Roux from Bloemfontein has not given up hope of finding
her cherished pet – instead she has turned to an unconventional way of
communicating with, and hopefully locating, her dog. Speaking to News24 on Monday, Le Roux said her year-old
yorkie, Lienkie, had gone missing from her home in January. Le Roux said she had left home and instructed her domestic worker
to ensure Lienkie did not leave her backyard because “she was too small to go
to the front yard”. “But our helper later told us she had left a window opened.
Because Lienkie is so small she is easy to take away or even escape on her
own.” Le Roux said she walked most streets of her neighbourhood
the day her dog went missing. “I had scoured the streets looking for her. I was crying
walking the streets.” The psychic root A few months after Lienkie went missing, Le Roux turned to a
psychic, despite being a sceptic. “I was initially contacted by a cat medium. She told me that
a dog’s energy is lower than a cat. So she was limited in how she could
assist.” Le Roux said she visited a Facebook page for lost and stray Yorkies
and small breeds, and made an appeal for her missing pet on the page. Here, she touched base with Tammy De Oliveira, an animal
psychic based in KwaZulu-Natal, who assured Le Roux that Lienkie was safe. Le Roux said De Oliveira had given her an insight into the
whereabouts of her beloved Lienkie. “Tammy said Lienkie wanted to go out and explore. It was
because I babied her. She has a big spirit and wanted to explore.” Le Roux said that during her sessions with De Oliveira, she
realised Lienkie was with a family of four. “She connected with Lienkie four times. She told me Lienkie
is with a man, a woman with two children. Lienkie told her she wants to be
found. Lienkie advised us to let newspapers know we are looking for her.” Le Roux said Lienkie, through De Oliveira, explained the
route the family took to drop their children off at school. “Our dog described how they took their kids to school and
passed a KFC on the way. Lienkie also explained how they drive past a shopping
centre.” Le Roux said De Oliveira had described how Lienkie hoped to
return home. “She wants to be found. I want to tell the people who have
her just to bring her back. I won’t get angry or anything. I just want my puppy
back.” Energy and telepathy Speaking to News24, De Oliveira said she had been an animal
psychic for eight years. “I know people are sceptical but every being is connected
through energy. Every single person has the ability to connect with an animal
telepathically.” De Oliveira said that she connects with animals on a “soul
to soul” level. “Many people do not realise that animals also have souls.
They have their own journeys. They go missing for a variety of reasons. Lots of
animals know where they are but leave their homes for a particular reason.
Sometimes, like us, they just get bored. They need adventure and stimulation.” De Oliveira said when she communicated with animals she
received words, images and feelings. “I ask them to show me where they are and where they have
been. I tell all of my clients there are no guarantees. We see how we can raise
our vibrations and communicate with the animals.”