Jeanette Chabalala, News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – Free State Health MEC Benny Malakoane on
Tuesday rejected accusations from the DA that he was a thug. “Honourable Jankielsohn’s statement said everyone here is
a thug. I know I am not a thug,” he said during a sitting in the provincial
legislature. He was responding to Free State DA leader Roy
Jankielsohn’s statement that “we have a government of thugs”. Jankielsohn said a public protector report released on
May 5 proved that Premier Ace Magashule’s Operation Hlasela was abused for
party political purposes. The Free State government’s Hlasela initiative was
intended to accelerate service delivery. In addition there was a privately-supported Hlasela fund,
which was intended to support the Hlasela initiative, but which was used to
endorse the ANC’s 2011 local government election campaign. Public Protector Thuli Madonsela found that the way the
initiative was implemented led to a conflation between the ANC and the Free
State government ahead of the 2011 elections. “We have a government of thugs, from Zuma, through to
Magashule, right down to the last ANC councillor in this province,” said
Jankielsohn. He said Magashule had appointed two MECs, Benny Malakoane
and Mathabo Leeto, who were facing charges of theft and corruption in the
Matjhabeng municipality. Last Thursday, Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) members
marched to the police and Free State prosecutor’s office in Bloemfontein to
demand a rapid finalisation of investigations into Malakoane. They called for
Malakoane to be removed from office. TAC general secretary Anele Yawa said they wanted to know
what was delaying the case and said Malakoane was failing Free State residents. On September 1 2014, the TAC laid corruption charges
against Malakoane and other senior officials of the health department. Malakoane allegedly ordered the Dihlabeng hospital in
Bethlehem to immediately make a bed in the ICU available for an ANC-connected
individual. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  