Wim Pretorius, News24From left to right: Miela Jansen van Vuuren, Cor Loggenberg and Loedie van der Westhuizen. (Pic: Susan Cilliers, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Parys - Four people, including a matriculant and a minor, appeared in the Parys Magistrate's Court on Thursday in connection with the alleged vigilante killing of two men they suspected of involvement in a farm attack.Three of them were released on R10 000 bail. The suspects were arrested earlier this week.The accused, Miela Jansen van Vuuren, 22, Loedie van der Westhuizen, 18, and Cor Loggenberg, 18, the latter a matric pupil at Potchefstroom Gimnasium, appeared briefly. A fourth suspect, a minor, 17, who may not be named, also appeared.The matter was held in camera as a minor was appearing.Hawks spokesperson Lieutenant Sfiso Nyakane said that the minor has been released under the Child Justice Act and will remain in the custody of his parents."They will appear tomorrow [on Friday] along with the rest of the accused," he told the media outside the court, referring to a group of eight other farmers suspected to have been involved in the attack.Claims farmer injured himselfHe added that Friday's appearance will also be held in camera.Before the four accused appeared, the court gallery was packed with family members and friends of the accused. One of the other accused due to appear on Friday, Boeta van der Westhuizen, was also present.Loedie van der Westhuizen, 73, alleged that while he was feeding his dogs on his farm near Parys on January 6, two armed men confronted him and demanded R20 000.He claimed he was pistol-whipped, but managed to run into his house and press a panic button. His attackers ran away. Since then, claims have emerged that he was not attacked and had injured himself.A group of local farmers tracked and confronted the two suspected attackers, Samuel Tjixa and Simon Jubeba, about 8km from the farm. The farmers allegedly assaulted them before handing them over to police.Tjixa was admitted to Parys Provincial Hospital and Jubeba to Pelonomi Hospital. Jubeba was declared dead on arrival. Tjixa died later. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.