 Craig McLachlan Various debates surrounding the development of the N2 Wild Coast Toll
Road have emerged in the past few months. In particular, focus has fallen on
the impact that the road will have on Wild Coast communities and ecosystems. Although environmental impact assessments conducted along the proposed
route have been approved and upheld on appeal, rumblings from select NGOs and
environmental groups continue to try draw attention to the overstated negative
side effects that such a development may have for the people and environment of
Mpondoland. While such environmental and cultural concerns have some validity all
the concerns and proposals put forward during the EIA process were studied
comprehensively and all of the identified potential negative social and
environmental effects have already or will be either minimised or mitigated
though measures such as the careful route location, strict environmental
oversight, carefully controlled land use planning and a major environmental
off-set programme. The fact that the entire EIA and its numerous studies conducted by
independent experts is largely ignored by the environmental lobby is disturbing
in itself. However recent new arguments related to the conservation of Amapondo
cultural heritage, and the preservation of ‘traditional ways of life’ give rise
for further serious concern as they seem to hark back to romanticised ideals of
indigenous life and the largely discredited colonialist conceptions of the
‘noble savage.’ Popularised during the time of Europe’s expansion into Africa and the
Americas, the concept of the noble savage supports stereotypical portrayals of
indigenous people as existing in an ‘authentic’ state of primitivism in which
they are ‘one’ with nature. Although widely critiqued, this idea was soon
adopted by conservationists who started promoting an adapted version of the
idea, namely, the ‘ecologically noble savage,’ which idealised indigenous and
native peoples as natural conservationists living in harmony with nature. This projection of Western-born conceptions of ‘conservationists’ onto
the identities of indigenous communities was largely constructed as a means to
represent an alignment between the interests of conservation and environmental
groups and indigenous people. However, since the main concerns of conservationists are not always with
people, but rather the ecosystems and environment in which they live, such
alignments, more often than not, are fraught with cross-cultural
misinterpretations which lead to disconnects between desired intents. To this end, while parallels can undoubtedly be found between the
demands of indigenous communities and conservation NGOs, a reliance on
different variations of the stereotype of the noble or ecologically noble
savage to solidify such connections not only acts to negate the complexities of
indigenous cultures, but also threatens the ultimate realisation of their
social, developmental and economic needs. With regard to the abovementioned Wild Coast environmental debates, not
only are allusions to this colonialist idea in 2016 offensive to the people of
Mpondoland – the ongoing projection of such identities onto Amapondo
communities means that they risk being frozen in the past with little
opportunity to contribute to South African history. This is because, such
imposed identities can lead to what Australian anthropologist Patrick Wolfe
calls “repressive authenticity,” a state in which previously colonised people
continue to view themselves and act according to colonialist styled stereotypes. In this regard, it is important to point out the danger that the
perpetuation of colonial and post-colonial histories of the myth of the ‘noble
savage,’ albeit indirect, can have on the further alienation of already
marginalised communities indigenous to Mpondoland and the greater Transkei
area. The anti N2 Wild Coast lobby also claim to speak on behalf of the
affected communities in the AmaPondo Nation and particularly for those within
the Amadiba tribal authority area. These claims again show a disturbing
colonial era mind-set by self-proclaiming authority on behalf of marginalised
communities without a mandate to do so. In the Mdatya, Xolobeni and Baleni villages in the Amadiba tribal
authority area communities have begged SANRAL not to listen to outside voices
that they insist have no authority and no mandate to speak on their behalf. In
our wide reaching and ongoing local stakeholder engagements over the past year
SANRAL has found overwhelming support for the road from all local stakeholders.
These communities, business associations, local leadership and government
entities all recognise that real and sustainable development, particularly in
eco-tourism and agriculture, will only be realisable in the foreseeable future
if the N2 Wild Coast road is built. Support for the project amongst the local population has also been
verified independently with a 2015 HSRC survey finding 98.8% of surveyed
residents in Pondoland in support of the project. The survey also confirmed the
existing widespread poverty and lack of economic opportunity across the entire
Pondoland region. In short, the continued opposition to the project and in particular the
use of arguments focused largely on the preservation of traditional ways of
life and heritage by the environmental lobby opposing the N2 Wild Coast Toll
Road, not only promote the romanticisation of indigenous life, but also take
away from the harsh realities experienced by some of the poorest communities in
South Africa, communities who will stand to benefit considerably from increased
development in Mpondoland, as a result of a life-giving road and economic
artery. - Craig McLachlan is SANRAL
project manager for the N2 Wild Coast Toll Road project. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom 
of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists 
published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily 
represent the views of News24.    