Chelsea Pieterse, The WitnessThe Ngwancela family (from left) Musa Jnr, his dad Musa Ngwancela, mum Zanele and brother Eyethu are reunited with their two beloved dogs, Darius and Zootie, after they were stolen from their property a month ago. (Ian Carbutt) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Howick family have been reunited with their two beloved dogs, which were stolen from their property a month ago.Zootie and Darius, a pitbull pair, disappeared from the home of their owners, the Ngwancelas, on September 8.Their disappearance was immediately reported by the heartbroken family, who said they were too upset to eat dinner the night of their dogs&rsquo; disappearance.Almost a month later, just as the family had begun to lose hope of ever seeing their pets again, the Umngeni SPCA called Musa Ngwancela, alerting him that a female pitbull fitting one of their missing dogs&rsquo; descriptions had been brought in.Umngeni SPCA operations manager Dudu Abraham said Zootie, the female, was brought to the SPCA by teenagers from the Shiyas, an informal settlement. &ldquo;They informed us that the dog was sick. When they were questioned about where they got the dog from, they said their uncle in Durban had given them the dog,&rdquo; said Abraham.Zootie, who was diagnosed by the SPCA to have severe biliary, was identified by a shocked Ngwancela and his wife.&ldquo;When we saw her, I thought that Darius must be dead. The condition she was in was terrible.&ldquo;To see her that way made my heart bleed. To give your dog so much love and look after her so well, only to have her in that terrible shape was too much,&rdquo; said Ngwancela&rsquo;s wife Zanele.While Zootie was being treated at the SPCA clinic, a plan to find Darius was being devised.&ldquo;It was decided that when the children came to visit the dog, we would prolong their visit and contact Ngwancela, Knight Force Security and the police,&rdquo; said Abraham.She said the children arrived on October 6 and the plan was put into action.&ldquo;With Knight Force watching from our offices, Ngwancela was taken around the kennels to his dog and when he saw the children with the dog, he said Zootie was his.&rdquo;Abraham said the children&rsquo;s story changed multiple times before they were eventually led to a property in Lions River. Darius was found on the property on a &ldquo;short chain, confined to a tiny area&rdquo;.Ngwancela said Darius immediately recognised him and leapt into his arms.&ldquo;We were so excited and so happy to have them back,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;It was unbelievable that they were found. They had been missing for a month and we are so glad we can take them home.&rdquo;He said he was very thankful to the Howick police, the Umngeni SPCA and Knight Force Security for helping them find the dogs.Abraham appealed to the public to report all missing pets to the SPCA.&ldquo;We keep detailed records of all reports of lost animals. The theft of pitbulls, staffies and bull terriers is increasing. Make sure your pets are safe in a secure property,&rdquo; she said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.