Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Waukesha. (John Locher, AP File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories West
Palm Beach – Donald Trump contends he doesn't know and never even met some of
the women accusing him of sexual assault, and his running mate said on Friday
the campaign is working on producing evidence that the claims are false. Trump
himself has called his accusers "horrible liars" and said he will
prove the allegations aren't true, but Hillary Clinton and ally Michelle Obama
say Americans are learning more about Trump's unacceptable behaviour every day. "We
can't expose our children to this any longer, not for another minute, let alone
for four years," the first lady told Clinton supporters at a rally in New
Hampshire. In a passionate address on Thursday, Mrs Obama said that after years
of working to end "this kind of violence and abuse and disrespect ...
we're hearing these exact same things on the campaign trail. We are drowning in
it." In an
appearance on Friday morning on Fox News, Republican vice presidential
candidate Mike Pence blamed the news media for what he characterised as an
obsession with "unsubstantiated" claims by Trump's accusers. "There
will be more evidence coming out" to prove Trump's innocence, Pence said.
Asked what evidence he was talking about, Pence said, "The campaign is
working on bringing that information out." He did not elaborate. Trump was
cheered at rallies on Thursday in Florida and two appearances in Ohio, states
central to his campaign. He is campaigning on Friday in another crucial state,
North Carolina. Clinton
has no rallies planned on Friday, but President Barack Obama planned to
campaign for her in Ohio. “These vicious claims are false” The
allegations against Trump dominated the campaign on Thursday. Four women have
told publications detailed stories about encounters with Trump that ended with
groping, kissing and other unwanted sexual advances. "These
vicious claims about me, of inappropriate conduct with women, are totally and
absolutely false. And the Clintons know it," Trump said on Thursday in
Florida. He offered no evidence discrediting the reports except to ask why his
accusers had waited years and then made their allegations less than a month
before the election. His
defense appeared undermined by a video that surfaced last week in which he
bragged about kissing and groping women without their permission. Similar behaviour
was detailed by women who accused Trump in articles published late on Wednesday
by The New York Times and the Palm Beach Post. Separately, a People magazine
reporter offered a first-person account accusing Trump of attacking her in 2005
while she was in Florida to interview him and his pregnant wife. The New
York billionaire denied the allegations and blamed them on Clinton's campaign
and a complicit news media. He promised to sue his media critics and said he
was preparing evidence that would discredit his female accusers, whom he called
"horrible people. They're horrible, horrible liars." For her part,
Clinton said "the disturbing stories just keep on coming." Trump's
attacks came after campaign manager Kellyanne Conway earlier in the week
highlighted a Clinton tweet that said "every survivor of sexual assault
deserves to be heard, believed, and supported." Conway hoped to encourage
more women to come forward with allegations against Bill Clinton, building on
the campaign's decision to bring three of the former president's accusers to
the second presidential debate. "His
campaign is promising more scorched-earth attacks. Now that's up to him,"
Hillary Clinton said during a San Francisco fundraiser. "He can run his
campaign however he chooses. And frankly, I don't care if he goes after
me." Republicans “deeply troubled” Republican
leaders across the country said they were deeply troubled by the allegations
against Trump, but there was no evidence of new defections. Over the weekend,
dozens of Republican senators and congressmen vowed they would not vote for
him, with many calling on him to step aside. Some recanted after an aggressive
weekend debate performance. The
stories about Trump and his counter-charges against Clinton's husband have
distracted attention from the release of thousands of hacked emails from
Clinton campaign chairperson John Podesta that included some potentially
damaging information. A new
batch indicated on Thursday that her 2008 presidential campaign had tried to
move the Illinois Democratic primary to a later date, believing it might help
her. The emails are being parcelled out by WikiLeaks. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  