Cape Town - A lot happened this week on the African soil from the release of at least 145 child soldiers from two rebel groups in South Sudan to Nigeria's fashion week.&nbsp; Take a look at some of the pictures from around the continent.&nbsp; Child soldiers listen to a speech after being released from a group called the Cobra Faction and from the main SPLA/IO rebel faction during a ceremony in Tenet, near Pibor, on October 26, 2016. The UN children's agency Unicef said on October 26, 2016 it had negotiated the release of 145 child soldiers from two rebel groups in South Sudan. Unicef estimates that around 16 000 children are currently fighting or working as porters with armed groups in South Sudan, including the national army. It says that more than 800 have been recruited this year alone. (AFP)Models backstage at the Lagos Fashion &amp; Design Week in Nigeria on October 26, 2016. (Stefan Heunis, AFP)People await on the beach before crossing the El Tarajal border, separating Morocco and Spain's North African enclave of Ceuta, in Ceuta on October 27, 2016. (AFP) A woman with a survival blanket disembarkes from the Topaz Responder, a rescue ship run by Maltese NGO MOAS, at the Brindisi's harbour on October 27, 2016. The Topaz Responder arrived in Brindisi with on board 347 migrants and refugees from Central Africa and Syria following a rescue operation at sea, off the Libyan coast. (AFP)A US security officer stands guard near the body of an assailant after he was shot and killed by Kenyan police outside the US embassy in the capital Nairobi on October 27, 2016, after stabbing an officer with a knife. local police chief Vitalis Otieno said the dead man was a 24-year-old Kenyan from Wajir in the country's north-east close to the border with Somalia, but did not give a name. According to police the man had been walking towards the US embassy and was close to the public entrance to the visa section when he attempted to grab a gun from one of the officers. (AFP) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.