Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “For
so long, South Africa's well-being has been defined by its world famous
commodities- gold and diamonds, but its future rests on the vision,
entrepreneurialism, creativity and industriousness of its  businesses and
people. The future will be defined by the ideas, products and services that
South Africa exports to the rest of Africa and to the world. The future will be
defined by the way South Africa harnesses its alternative energy resources
while reducing its dependence on fossil fuels, how it cultivates and shepherds
its natural resources and how it moves its industrial sector forward. Sustainable
growth through energy, manufacturing aided by transportation can provide the strong
foundation for an economically prosperous and inclusive country. It can provide
both the stability and momentum that encourages established businesses, new
businesses and entrepreneurs, as well as ignite the next generation of ideas.
What matters to South Africa now, is to step away from the inequality and
uneven development of the past and to invest in new infrastructure and new
skills as a catalyst for business and industrial opportunities” says, Keshin
Govender, Head of Corporate Communications at Siemens South Africa. Some
of the positive innovations that are taking place in South Africa: Keeping us moving A new
state-of-the art control centre for centralised rail traffic management called
the Gauteng Nerve Centre was recently inaugurated. Consolidating the province’s eight
existing passenger train control rooms into a single, high-tech “super” control
centre that will act as Gauteng’s passenger signalling hub, the new operations control can
monitor 600 trains and up to 500 000 passengers every day. This means better
and more immediate response times to any operating failures, accidents and
other incidents. Keeping us powered up Over
the past couple of years, gas has become a popular source of electricity
globally. It is low risk (financially and technically), it is dependable and
flexible, and emits lower carbon emissions than other fossil fuels. It is also
takes less time to build gas-fired plants than coal and
nuclear plants. Adding gas-to-power generation to the South African energy mix
will be a major driver of economic prosperity, adding billions of Rands to GDP
whilst stimulating FDI - contributing towards the creations of thousands of
direct and indirect jobs. Localisation in the gas sector will make a measurable
difference to socio-economic development by boosting the number of empowered
entrepreneurs. Technology giant, Siemens is helping South Africa create a pathway to sustainable and inclusive growth by focusing on what matters most to the country's development,
its businesses and society as a whole. As a result, 'Ingenuity for life' is
helping to drive the economy, encourage local job creation and skills
development and improve quality of life.  