Talks have started to create two marine protected areas to shield critical areas of ocean around the frozen continent. (Hanlie Gouws, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sydney - Talks opened in Australia on Monday to create two vast
marine sanctuaries aimed at protecting the pristine wilderness of Antarctica
with Russia and China key to whether they succeed. The fate
of the plans to shield critical areas of ocean around the frozen continent is
in the hands of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
Resources (CCAMLR) at its annual meeting in Hobart. Attempts
to create both an Australian-backed East Antarctic scheme and a US-New Zealand
bid for a protected zone in the Ross Sea have been repeatedly blocked due to a
lack of consensus. Campaigners
at the talks told AFP there was broad agreement among all 24 member countries
and the European Union, except China and Russia, which is chairing this year's
meeting. Antarctic
Ocean Alliance project director Mike Walker pointed to a recent US decision to
expand the huge Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument off Hawaii as
evidence of growing global momentum to designate Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). "The
time for action to safeguard the Antarctic's waters, the engine room of the
ocean, is now," he said. "Commitments
for almost four million square kilometres of MPAs have been made in the past
weeks. "This
is a clear indication to all the parties participating in the meeting in Hobart
that there is a growing momentum for greater ocean conservation, and
Antarctic's oceans and marine life should be next." At last
year's meeting, China finally offered support for the Ross Sea sanctuary, but
still opposed the Australian-led East Antarctica reserve, campaigners said. Positive approach Russia
continues to drag its feet on both, citing geopolitical
issues and concerns about their size. Andrea
Kavanagh, director of Antarctic and Southern Ocean work at The Pew Charitable
Trusts, said she was upbeat going into this year's meeting that Moscow could
fall into line. "This
year's global meeting could result in the largest-ever protection of the high
seas, and Russia is the key to reaching this goal," she said. "As
the chair of CCAMLR, Russia is approaching this year's negotiations
positively." She
cited Russia designating 2017 as the Year of Ecology and its recent move to
significantly increase the size of the MPA around Franz Josef Land in the
Arctic as reasons for her confidence. Both
reserve proposals have been on the table with CCAMLR - a treaty tasked with
overseeing conservation and sustainable exploitation of the Antarctic Ocean, also
known as the Southern Ocean - since 2011. Each has
been modified as members have debated how to manage the region, which
environmentalists say is home to more than 10 000 unique species, including
seals and colossal squid. It is also critical for scientific research. Another
key area of discussion in Hobart includes the effective and sustainable
management of fishing krill, a cornerstone of the Antarctic eco-system and the
staple diet of many animals, including seals, whales, fish, squid, penguins and
other seabirds. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  