Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories These statistics are drawn from the four psychiatric hospitals under the management of the provincial government &ndash; Lentegeur, Stikland, Alexandra and Valkenberg &ndash; as well as two sub-acute facilities &ndash; New Beginnings and William Slater. The World Health Organisation has set the following theme for this year: &ldquo;Dignity in mental health &ndash; psychological and mental health first aid for all&rdquo;. In line with this, the province is focusing on reducing the stigma, isolation and discrimination that continues to burden individuals with mental health conditions, their families and carers. &ldquo;De-institutionalising mental health clients and reintegrating them into supportive and accepting communities will greatly assist us in reducing psychiatric service pressures. Community involvement is therefore a fundamental medium of care for mental health users. She highlights that providing psychological and mental health first aid is a gesture of care shown towards a fellow human being who may need emotional support. &ldquo;With increased levels of criminal activities and social factors prevalent in South Africa, many individuals are often affected by an emergency, disaster or traumatic event,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;Basic mental health first aid skills can be developed by anyone in the community and should form part of an individual&rsquo;s duty in showing a degree of care to others in their community, just as they would wish to be cared for,&rdquo; says Mbombo. This is evident in the 2014/15 financial year report, which shows that these facilities admitted 5944 patients and attended to 40&thinsp;409 patients at outpatient departments. In addition, the province&rsquo;s primary healthcare service also offers mental health services to individuals who require it. Common mental health conditions are identified, diagnosed and treated. &ldquo;[The provincial health department] is addressing the growing need for the care of patients with mental illnesses by improving access to treatment and counselling at a primary health care level in line with the Mental Health Care Act. &ldquo;However, a collective approach whereby the community extends care and support to individuals with mental health conditions, their families and carers can most certainly ease the burden with immediate effect,&rdquo; says Mbombo.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.