Nompilo Kunene, The WitnessNine-year-old Darian (in front) and his twin brother Declan Pillay. (Christine Pillay) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban resident, Marilee Chananie, says unlike most women her age, she is proudly 41 years old; that's because thanks to organ donations, she's been given a chance to live. Watch.WATCHPietermaritzburg - The parents of a nine-year-old Pietermaritzburg boy, Darian Pillay, believe a herbal renal treatment in China may help save his life.The young Darian and his twin brother, Declan, were born prematurely. While Declan was able to develop normally, Darian has had health problems from birth.Darian has a condition called Bilateral Renal Parenchymal Disease, which resulted in his kidneys and other organs losing most of their function.Darian&rsquo;s mother, Christine Pillay, told The Witness that Darian needs organ transplants but medical experts told her and her husband that he is still too young for these to take place.&ldquo;My husband and I would like to take Darian to China for alternate treatment that will prolong the transplant for at least five years until he is bigger and stronger,&rdquo; said Pillay.Pillay explained that Darian is now in stage four renal failure as most of his organs are slowly failing him and delaying his physical growth.Darian has had many medical episodes which have seen him being in and out of hospitals, flying to hospitals in other provinces, multiple drip infiltrations and has even undergone a skin graft. Pillay describes Darian as a very friendly child who loves people and socialising. &ldquo;Darian does not understand his condition. He knows that he does not feel well sometimes due to his kidneys not working properly. &ldquo;My husband and I have been dealing with this for nine years. &ldquo;To see our child being poked and prodded all the time breaks our hearts and his brother feels the same way, he is very protective of Darian,&rdquo; said Pillay. A fundraising day is being held on November 20 for Darian at the Victoria Golf Club (VCC).&ldquo;People can book a four ball, play some golf or sponsor a hole or sponsor prizes for the golfers. Any type of support would be appreciated. I am hoping we raise enough funds, and people can expect a pleasant day at the VCC with a lovely lunch,&rdquo; said Pillay.She added that as a parent all she wants is to improve her son&rsquo;s life and help him live a healthy and normal life.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.