Iavan Pijoos, News24UPDATE 22:21 Captain David Miller confirms the suspect was a resident at the Meadows complex.UPDATE 22:11 Police spokesperson Captain David Miller says the suspect has been killed but not willing to comment on speculations that the man took his own life. UPDATE 22:01 - Edward Gobey was shot and killed in Moreleta Park today.Gobey managed security at the Meadows complex.A special task team is on the scene, they have a profile on the suspect.Miller cannot comment on details of the suspect in terms of his background, training in handling of firearms and age.The situation is very tense, says Capt. Miller of @SAPoliceService describing #MoreletaPark situation, special task team is on site @News24UPDATE 21:08 - Residents are allowed back in most streets but the complex where the crime took place. UPDATE 20:06 - The status of the gunman is still unclear. UPDATE 19:46 - Police spokesperson David Miller says two police officers and three security guards have been freed. They don't seem to be seriously injured. The gunman still appears to be holed up in his home. UPDATE 19:43 - #MoreletaPark Some in houses neighbouring near the complex where the #MoreletaPark shooting occurred are staying indoors, frightened @News24UPDATE 19:24 - All four hostages have been taken to safety. The complex's chairperson was sadly one of those killed,&nbsp; Carl Costen: area manager for Brinant security told News24's Jenni Evans. UPDATE 18:51 - Electricity to the complex has been cut.UPDATE 18:32 - It has been confirmed that two people have been killed. One was a caretaker at the complex and another a security guard. SABC News reports that at least three people are being held hostage.SABC reports that the suspect is known amongst the neighbours to be volatile person. Beyond that, there is no information on the motive for the shooting.#MoreletaPark Bolo Str has been closed at Paul Str - people access any of those complexes, waiting in street. BB pic.twitter.com/Zp9lcE4scO LATEST at 18:15:- Pretoria - Police and other armed security personnel managed to get some people out of the complex. It is believed that the shooter allegedly shot at victims from his balcony, Netwerk24's reporter on the scene Hanti Otto tweeted.&nbsp; #MoreletaPark The sun is setting in Pretoria as the hostage situation is still underway down the road. CE pic.twitter.com/X6v3jZnJnL Two police officers and two security guards are being held hostage in a Moreleta Park townhouse complex on Wednesday afternoon, police said.Two members of the public were wounded during a shooting in the Meadows complex, Captain Ilze Jones said.The two security guards being held hostage were employees of the Brinant security company.Police cordoned the area off after shots were fired in the complex at 13:00.Police hostage negotiators and emergency services were on the scene.A neighbour, who asked not to be named, said a man armed with a rifle was shooting at random. Police were trying to negotiate with him. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.