Mandla Mahashe Learners from Fezeka Secondary School being taugh to code. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Residents from Gugulethu and surrounds are invited to donate books and stationery in a bid to help young bookworms. This is the call made by Isiba Loluntu which is an non profit organisation which will be launched on the 8th of October. The organisation founded by Gugulethu native Sandile Banjwa will be a hosting a Donate a Book event at the Ikhwezi Recreational Centre in NY2. The organisation is inviting individuals, organisations and corporate to donate stationery,children's books, academic books, money and computers. Banjwa says that his organisation has noted that there was still worrying illiteracy among young people and there still little interest in reading. So we have devised a strategy of using innovative techniques to get youngsters involved in reading. We combine the use of computers to make reading traditional books while we also assist in computer literacy, he said. His organisation teaches learners from grade 8 to 11 learner computer programming while also encouraging them to read books. He said that that it is their aim to hit two birds with one stone in a bid to fast track literacy and make youngsters employable. Computer programmers are one of the most sought after individuals by companies. We have to make young people employable. We have to give them the correct skills to be competitive in the job market but at the same time grow their appetite to read books, he said. Banjwa, a psychology graduate from the University of Western Cape, said that he aimed to use his background to grow this interest in the young people. As part of their coding class learners have to play certain games while they learn to code which then makes it a fun experience for them. Education is a lifelong process and it is our aim to eradicate illiteracy through innovating learning, she said. He appealed to the community to open their hearts and make the donation as it would help them assist school leavers and dropouts. We as a community must value education and open doors to everyone that is willing and thriving to get high quality education, he said. Banjwa can be contacted on 0614219883, email isibaloluntu@gmail.com or on Facebook. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.