News24 Correspondent (File, supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The City of Cape Town on Sunday said it had increased locations where fireworks could be lit for Guy Fawkes, Diwali and New Year's Eve celebrations this year. "The City of Cape Town has approved 12 sites for the discharge of fireworks during Guy Fawkes, Diwali and New Year's Eve this year," the city said. The City's mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith, said that the increase in sites was designed to "minimise the temptation to discharge fireworks from unsupervised areas". Two sites – Theo Marais Park in Milnerton and Sunrise Beach – had been removed from the list due to public complaints and traffic congestion respectively. The approved sites now include: The Tourism Centre on the Table View beachfront, the Wesfleur sportsfield in Atlantis, the sportsfield in Bishop Lavis, the Metropolitan sportsgrounds in Bonteheuwel and the Delft Central sportsgrounds in Delft. Those looking to light up the night sky in Mitchell’s Plain can do so at the Swartklip sports complex, while in Athlone, the stadium’s eastern parking  area can be used. Age restriction for discharging fireworks Firework fanatics in Camps Bay can use the Maiden’s Cove parking area, while in Strandfontein the Strandfontein Pavilion can be utilised. The Serapta sports complex, Blue Downs sportsfield and Macassar Beach parking area have all also been designated as suitable. "All designated fireworks areas will be patrolled by city law enforcement and metro police as well as a fire inspector." Only those over the age of 16 may discharge fireworks. On Guy Fawkes and Diwali, fireworks can only be set off before 23:00 – although New Year's Eve is an exception to this rule. Anyone under the age of 16 is not permitted to discharge fireworks and 23:00 is the cut-off time on both Guy Fawkes and Diwali, with New Year’s Eve being the exception. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  