Kalisha.NaickerTHE recent ICF Canoe Marathon World Championships in Brandeburg, Germany provided the ideal platform for South African paddlers to thrive on the international stage and the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Sport and Recreation backed Elite Athlete Development Programme shone as they scooped six of the medals won by Team South Africa. South African paddlers have traditionally achieved their best international canoeing results at the flat-water marathon showpiece and the 2016 haul was no different with the legendary Hank McGregor leading the way. McGregor repeated his feat of 2014 where he won both the men s K1 and K2 titles however the EADP s own Andy Birkett also made it a double podium in the men s racing when he finished behind McGregor in the K1 race to take silver and along with K2 partner and fellow EADP star Louis Hattingh wrapped up the bronze medal in the doubles race. We have been working really hard with the EADP satellite programme in Pietermaritzburg and our results have shown how important all the elements of our training with the EADP are in preparing us for a world championship, Birkett mentioned. Having consistent help along the way is vital in helping us compete with the best in the world and I appreciate all the assistance that we have received. 2017 sees the World Marathon Championships return to South African shores after more than a decade and more specifically to Birkett s hometown of Pietermaritzburg. Challenging for a gold medal on home soil in front of a home crowd is a chance he is not passing up. Of course World Marathon Champs here next year is going to be my major focus. I cannot believe that I have got the privilege of racing a world championship in my home town! It s going to be a pretty surreal experience not having to catch shuttles to racing venues and being able to wake up at home in the morning! Birkett mentioned excitedly. The EADP contingent consisted of Birkett, Louis Hattingh, Jean van der Westhuysen in the men s category with Jenna Ward and Kyeta Purchase in the women s races with the team accounting for over half of the overall medal haul from Team South Africa. Visit www.eadp.co.za for details. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.