President Jacob Zuma. (File, City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The Constitutional Court has refused for now to hear the National Prosecuting Authority&rsquo;s (NPA) appeal on the North Gauteng High Court judgment which reinstated fraud and corruption charges against President Jacob Zuma, the DA said in a media release on Friday. "This highlights, yet again, the deliberate attempts by the NPA and Jacob Zuma to do everything possible to delay Jacob Zuma having his day in court," said James Selfe, chairperson of the DA's federal executive. The full bench of the North Gauteng High Court ruled in April&nbsp;that the 783 fraud, racketeering and corruption charges against Zuma should be reinstated. This was after a seven-year battle by the DA. The court ruled that the decision to discontinue the prosecution against the president should be reviewed and set aside.On April 6, 2009, then-NPA head Mokotedi Mpshe said transcripts of telephone conversations between then-Scorpions boss Leonard McCarthy and former NPA boss Bulelani Ngcuka, showed political interference in the decision to charge Zuma. The charges were withdrawn in the High Court in Durban on April 7, 2009.In May the NPA said it was seeking leave to appeal, saying there was "considerable public interest" at stake in this matter."The DA has argued that there are no reasonable prospects of success nor are there any other compelling reasons why the appeal should be heard. The full bench of the North Gauteng High Court fully ventilated the issues and they too came to the determination that an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) would be unsuccessful. We are confident that the SCA will come to a similar conclusion," said Selfe. "It is time for Jacob Zuma, and his captured institutions of State, to stop delaying the inevitable. "Zuma, like every other South African charged with a crime, must have his day in court and answer for the 783 charges against him. The constitutional principle of the Rule of Law depends on it," Selfe said.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.