Chevon Booysen @Chevonbooysen Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories On Tuesday 26 September, during two separate incidents, two men were shot one killed and one left in a coma. Manenberg police spokesperson Captain Ian Bennett confirms the men were shot within a few minutes of each other. In (two) separate incidents a man was shot in the head while (another man) was shot multiple times in the head and upper body, Bennett says. He explains: At 15:00 a 23-year-old man was shot as he was getting out of a taxi in The Downes Road in Manenberg. It is alleged that as he got out of the taxi, an unknown man fired several shots in his direction, hitting him in the head. The suspects fled the scene on foot. The victim was taken to hospital for emergency medical treatment and is confirmed to be in a coma. At 15:15 (police officers) attended to another shooting. (The 35 -year-old victim) was shot several times in his head and chest in Flora Court. It is unknown what happened and why he was shot dead, Bennett says. While police attended to the scene collecting evidence, an 18-year-old suspect was pointed out as the shooter.The man was arrested and was charged with murder.Manenberg Safety Forum chairperson Roegshanda Pascoe says although it is the job of the police to assist the community during these times, it is up to the community to take a stand as well. As much as we call on police, it s all up to us living in Manenberg to bring that change we want to see, so my call is yet again: Manenberg, unite! Move past the division you have created yourself. Leave these politics of religion, organisation affiliations and political affiliations behind, Pascoe says. V Anyone with information regarding this shooting incident and flare-up of renewed gang conflict can contact Manenberg police on 021 699 9400 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.