Tladi.Moloi QWAQWA. – The National Prosecuting Authority and the Phuthaditjhaba Police Cluster had an intensive and effective training session, the aim of which was to find ways of effectively working together to reduce crime within the cluster. The training was held at the Phuthaditjhaba Human Resource Development Centre of Malala-a-Laotswe and was conducted by the NPA’s Adv. Jack Potgieter and attorney Rias Hanware from Bloemfontein, under the leadership of Adv. Mahloko from the Phuthaditjhaba Cluster. This whole exercise sought to identify shortcomings and to close existing gaps in the operational and tactical efficiency of the clusters, thereby reducing both petty and serious crimes. The presentation also sought to empower police officers on the ground as well as the prosecuting authority to pursue the common objective of dealing effectively with crime and thus deter criminal behaviour.  The training also covered areas such as administration and legal aid. According to Hanware, the training sessions were first held at the Park Road police station in Bloemfontein and were now being rolled out to various clusters within the Free State to achieve the same goal of crime reduction.  “This will also change the perception of the community when they look at the outcome of the cases.  “The sessions has enhanced the ability of the NPA to prosecute in a number of petty cases in Bloemfontein and it should do the same for the police in carrying out their duties,” Hanware said. He was seconded by Potgieter, who added that the community should know that every action has consequences.  He said the police should not allow minor crimes to happen or to brush them aside, because they tend to get bigger.  The reduction of petty crimes will also have an effect on the incidence of serious crimes. The Phuthaditjhaba Cluster Commander, Maj. Gen. Peter Moloi, concluded by saying that both him and Brig. Moses Mohlare, station commander of Phuthatditjhaba, were called upon by the national commissioner to reduce crime levels in their cluster, because the government expected them to do so “Let us use this opportunity at our disposal to reduce crime within the cluster,” said Maj. Gen. Moloi addressing the police officers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  