Tladi.MoloiMazwane Mohatlane, Kgotso Mohatlane (deputy principal at the Tiisetsang Secondary School) and Lindiwe Mabaso (acting district director at the Thabo Mofutsanyana Department of Education) during the Thabo Mofutsanyana District s National Teaching Awards at the Ntsu Secondary School in Bethlehem on Friday (21/10). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bethlehem. Kgotso Mohatlane, a deputy principal at the Tiisetsang Secondary School in Bohlokong near Bethlehem, has been bestowed the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Thabo Mofutsanyana Department of Education. He was presented the award at the Ntsu Secondary School in Bethlehem on Friday (21/10). Mohatlane, who has spent three decades at Tiisetsang, said the award took his mind back to the days when he was still energetic and full of adrenaline. I have taught a number of people, some of who are occupying top positions these days. You won t believe me when I tell you that one of them even bought me a car as a token of appreciation. Tiisetsang s uniform was black and white in the old days, but through my influence they changed it to blue and white, he said.He said he was humbled that among all the teachers in the region, he was the one who scooped the award.Meanwhile, the district also selected a total of ten teachers who will represent it at the forthcoming provincial awards. These are teachers who were awarded in the regional finals.Lindiwe Mabaso, the acting district director, said she was optimistic that the selected teachers would make them proud at the next round of the competition. She said the regional awards were also made to give recognition to teachers who performed excellently in their work. You should go and represent us well. You know that we in the district are doing everything to get the learners to excel. I want to say to the award-winning teachers, you are an example to us all. Keep on nurturing our young to become better citizens of our country, she said.She said she was happy with this year s number of entries. We are, however, hoping for a bigger pool in the next year s competition, she said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.