Riek Machar. (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - South Sudan rebel leader Riek Machar says he could return to the country as early as next month, even if he has to enter the way he fled &mdash; on foot.In an interview with The Associated Press in South Africa, Machar said a new political process is needed to revive a peace deal that has collapsed. Without it, there is "no room for me to return" to the government, he said.He did not commit to rejoining the peace deal on the same terms. Under the agreement signed in 2015 that sought to end a two-year civil war, he was vice president in a fragile national unity government under his rival, President Salva Kiir.Machar has said he has the right to be president, and that he has enough forces to "liberate" the capital, Juba.Machar called for his supporters to "wage a popular armed resistance against the authoritarian and racist regime" in his first public comments in exile last month. But on Thursday he backed away from that call to arms, describing it as a statement "for resisting the war being forced on us".More attacks&nbsp;Machar fled South Sudan in July when fighting erupted among security forces, and he last spoke with Kiir on July 15, less than a week after the fighting began. The government quickly replaced him as vice president. Fighting has continued in several parts of South Sudan since then.In some of his first interviews on Thursday, Machar warned of coming atrocities by South Sudan's government, including possible genocide. On Wednesday, Kiir announced that tribalism had become a growing factor in the conflict and that the army supporting him was mostly his fellow Dinka."What is that going to do?" asked Machar, an ethnic Nuer.He said he is afraid South Sudan will see more attacks like the one by South Sudanese soldiers in July on the Terrain compound popular with foreigners, where Americans were singled out and aid workers and others were raped, forced to watch a local journalist be shot dead and subjected to mock executions.If South Sudan's government can do that to foreigners from powerful countries, Machar asked, what does the world think it will do to its own people?Machar also described how he fled the country in July in a 804km march through the bush into the Democratic Republic of Congo. There, he said, the United Nations peacekeeping force extracted him even as South Sudanese helicopter gunships continued to target him beyond their border.Contradictory statements&nbsp;"I went through an ordeal," Machar said, describing an epic, zig-zagging hike of 40 days in which he and supporters were reduced to eating wild fruit and snails. Five of his soldiers died, he said, likely from poisoning after eating raw cassava.Now Machar is in a hit-and-miss pursuit of world leaders to pursue talks on a way to revive South Sudan's peace deal.After a stay in Sudan, where he failed to meet President Omar Bashir, he is now in South Africa and hopes to meet President Jacob Zuma.During his time in Sudan's capital, Khartoum, Machar said Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni requested a meeting to discuss a political process. Museveni also asked if Machar would participate in a dialogue. "I said I would," the rebel leader said.South Sudan's government has given contradictory statements over whether it would allow Machar back or negotiate with him.Analysts say some diplomats have tried to get Machar to accept exile, but he rejected the idea &mdash; "Why would I?" &mdash; saying he had a responsibility to return to South Sudan.And he said he would support a UN-imposed arms embargo on South Sudan, saying that "it is the government that is buying arms." He would not say whether his forces are getting arms from outside.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.