Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The lingerie-inspired trend is gaining traction this season with a far more literal interpretation. We’re not suggesting that you should head to work in your negligée, but one look at the Spring 2016 runway shows of Céline, Givenchy, and Chloé and you’ll be far more inclined to don a slinky camisole. Feeling nervous about looking like you’re wearing sleepwear during the day? Here is our guide to channelling the trend. Make it work for you Opt for a lingerie-inspired piece that reflects your style. Since the key to embracing any trend is confidence, if you look uncomfortable it’ll be a style fail. So, if you tend to be more conservative, don’t go for the revealing slip dress; rather opt for an understated version like a sheer, lace-trimmed blouse. It’s all about balance To ensure you don’t look like you stepped out of your bed and into the office, balance your look with more structured or edgy pieces from your wardrobe. We’re talking about a slinky slip dress paired with a leather biker jacket to toughen up the look or a lace-trimmed camisole tucked into tuxedo pants to add sophistication. If you’re feeling bold, you can go grunge with a pair of chunky lace-up boots. Find your fit The look celebrates the natural drape of fabric so that your camisole, slip dress or silk pyjama shirt skims the curves of your body. To achieve this fluid look, fabric is often cut on the bias to give a flattering fall. Be wary of styles that pull across your bust or torso. Subtle details Given the revealing nature of the trend, the trick to getting it right is letting the lingerie-inspired piece be the ‘hero’ of your outfit. For this reason, accessorise your look with soft, feminine and understated jewellery. Great options are geo-block studs, barely-there necklaces with geometric pendants, rose gold rings or diamanté-embellished bangles to add a hint of shimmer to your look. Shop for lingerie-inspired pieces at the Woolies dress promotion.