Jenni Evans Jacob Zuma is accompanied by Indian Minister of State for External Affairs, General VK Singh upon his arrival at the airport in Goa. (Money Sharma, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - President Jacob Zuma arrived in Goa, India, on Saturday with his delegation for the 8th BRICS summit, his office said. His arrival comes as nine people are in custody after a spate of looting and arson in Braamfontein on Friday night and Saturday morning, and questions over the safe storage of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela's report on "state capture" which Zuma did not want released immediately. Minister of State Security, Mr David Mahlobi is listed as being part of the BRICS delegation. The summit theme is "Building Responsive, Inclusive and Collective Solutions", and leaders and delegates will discuss intra-BRICS Cooperation. Issues will include international conflicts, the fight against terrorism, and the reform of global system of governance. This refers to the "democratisation" of the United Nations and the Bretton Woods Institutions. The presidency said leaders would also meet with the BRICS Business Council. The delegations includes Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane; Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies; Minister of Science and Technology, Naledi Pandor and Minister of Small Business Development Lindiwe Zulu. News24 has submitted questions requesting the president's response to the Braamfontein incidents. A court application on Friday by the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Des van Rooyen to stop the release of the "state capture" report led to a postponement to 2 November. Zuma's own similar application would be joined with Van Rooyen's. The report was expected to gain insight into allegations that a family of wealthy industrialists who hailed from India and started a massive business empire in South Africa had a hand in the appointment of certain Cabinet ministers in South Africa. They have denied it and have threatened to take action if the allegations do not stop. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  