 Mpumelelo Mkhabela In hindsight, Chief Justice
Mogoeng Mogoeng and his colleagues at the Constitutional Court got their
analogies slightly wrong in the Nkandla judgment. Writing for the unanimous court,
Mogoeng said then Public Protector Thuli Madonsela embodied the biblical David
who defeated Goliath. Constitutionalism and the rule of
law, Mogoeng further said, were the mighty sword that stood ready to chop the
ugly head of impunity from its stiffened neck. The powerful imagery is
self-explanatory. Like David with his shepherd sling, poorly resourced
Madonsela takes on the powerful Goliath (President Jacob Zuma) who has all the
resources the Philistines (Zuma’s worshippers such as Kebby Maphatsoe) could
master. Need I add that the likes of Maphatsoe are not short of verbal stun
grenades to defend Zuma. Zuma’s resourcefulness is
breathtaking. He is armed with executive authority of the Republic, he appoints
heads of state organs and ministers subject to only Gupta approval, accounts to
an acquiescent Parliament, gets support from the governing party that dances to
his tune instead of composing one for him and he enjoys the company of his
unelected co-governors, the Guptas. If Mogoeng was right that Zuma was
a Goliath, the Nkandla judgment would have been the fatal blow to Zuma's
political career. Parliament would have followed up with the mighty sword and
impeached him. Like Goliath, Zuma would have been
politically decapitated. But it is apparent to any political observer that Zuma
is ensconced in power. And he is remaking, as he goes along, the ANC,
the government and the Republic in his own image. Mogoeng missed some crucial detail
of Goliath’s fall. In his book Strategy:
A History, Lawrence Freedman makes an interesting observation about the
David vs Goliath story which might explain the missing part in the
Constitutional Court’s analogies. Freedman writes: “Indeed,
reference to David is almost de rigueur whenever an underdog strategy is
discussed. Seldom noted, however, is that success did not solely depend on the
initial blow but also on the second blow, by which David ensured that Goliath
had no chance to recover, as well as the Philistines’ readiness to accept the
results.” Mogoeng either strongly believed
that the Nkandla judgment was the second and therefore last blow from Thuli or
he thought it was sufficient for Parliament to translate it into the last blow.
In this regard, the judgment proved less prescient.           - Follow Mpumelelo Mkhabela on Twitter.     