Kaveel Singh, News24 Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. (Matthew le Cordeur, Fin24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; As support for Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan grows in KwaZulu-Natal, a number of events have been planned to support him at his court appearance next week.The Action Citizens Movement (ACM) is throwing its weight behind Gordhan, former Sars commissioner Ivan Pillay and deputy commissioner Oupa Magashula, ACM member and community activist Devan Pillay said on Wednesday.The three face a charge of fraud relating to Pillay&rsquo;s being granted early retirement in 2010. He was subsequently rehired as a consultant. They are due to appear in the Pretoria Regional Court on November 2.Pillay said the ACM would peacefully demonstrate at Gugu Dlamini Park in the Durban city centre on the day. ACM hosted a peaceful protest in Westville, Durban, on Monday that received positive support, Pillay said."We have a whole host of events leading up to the court case next week. And it is not just us, there is support in Johannesburg and Pretoria as well. Many are saying this witch hunt for Pravin is uncalled for."A public meeting was being held on Wednesday evening to drum up more support."What we are trying to do is tell the rank and file community members that our country is in disarray and we need their support to change things. We all have to get involved."Pillay urged the public to take an active interest in politics. President Jacob Zuma was attacking Gordhan, he said."We have to think about the future of our country. Many morally-minded people have called the charges against these people trumped-up and we can see why."Pillay praised Gordhan for being an individual with integrity and a "high moral compass".He said NPA head Shaun Abrahams, who announced the decision that Gordhan would be charged, was getting instructions from Zuma.Pillay said that, while prominent activists acknowledged Zuma&rsquo;s contribution to the liberation struggle, many felt he was not doing a good job. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.