Candyce.Krishna PHOTOS: candyce krishna The road leading to the church. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A CONCERNED Margate resident is baffled by how the building plans of a new church in the area were passed and claims that the proper processes were not followed. Firstly, the advert calling for comments contained the wrong address, so nobody objected. The advert was placed in a local newspaper in 2014 and called for land approval in Christopher Road, however, the church is being built in Philip Street. “Obviously since nobody objected or commented, building went ahead,” she said. The resident says it is obvious that nobody bothered to check the site before construction began. “If a check was done, surely somebody would have noticed the error. The plot mentioned in the advert already has a house on it.” She said had residents known that Philip Street was the actual site, she and others would have objected. “This street is not a proper road, although people have been living there for more than 10 years,” she said. “It can barely accommodate the vehicles of the people who live on the street, so it will not accommodate the influx of vehicles should a church be built there, especially in rainy weather,” she added. Construction commenced in 2015, but stopped at the beginning of this year. According to information registered at the deeds office, the property belongs to the Apostolic Faith Mission (AFM) Assembly of South Africa, but when the Fever contacted the church pastor, Henry Msizazwe­, he said they did not own the property. Msizazwe said a new church was built, but in Peck Street, Margate, near Seaslopes. The address of the property he provided to the Fever is registered to the AFM church. Ray Nkonyeni spokesperson, Simon­ April, was approached for comment on the matter two weeks ago, but none was forthcoming at the time of going to print.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.