Tammy Petersen, News24 UCT protests Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The University of Cape Town has laid criminal charges after students allegedly broke into the campus protection services' office, intimidated the guards, and forced them out. Spokesperson Elijah Moholola said on Thursday that about 70 protesters were involved in the incident which took place on Wednesday. "One member of the group, who could be identified and appeared to be the leader and was making demands on their behalf, was arrested by SAPS," he said. "UCT is attempting to identify other individuals that were part of this group, who may have committed unlawful actions, so that action can also be taken against them." Their actions contravened an agreement between protesting students and the university's executive that security services be allowed to continue operating. Charges of malicious damage to property, housebreaking and intimidation were laid. Safe working environment READ: Violent clashes continue at VUT "This was the second consecutive day when a group of protesters, under the leadership of the same person, entered UCT offices to remove workers from their jobs," Moholola said. "UCT laid this charge because it cannot allow unlawful action that is targeted at staff members and has a responsibility to ensure that their rights to a safe working environment are protected." Student activist Masixole Mlandu was arrested on Wednesday afternoon, his lawyer Lufuno Musetsho said. Mlandu was released on R1 000 bail last Thursday after spending two nights behind bars. He was not allowed to be on campus or prevent people from doing their work, in terms of an interdict against him. Musetsho could not immediately confirm the charges against Mlandu, but said his client was expected to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Friday. UCT is closed until Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  