DA Member of Parliament Legislature (MP) Celeste Barker has called on the government to take action to combat the continual incidents of break-ins and burglaries at local clinics in Nelson Mandela Bay townships as a result of lack of security. Barker said this puts the lives of staff members at risk and is destroying infrastructure and robbing patients of the right to medication. According to Barker, break-ins, robberies and theft at these clinics have been going on for a while now and that it was time that they ended. The waiting room of Lunga Kobese clinic in Kwazakhele became a life-threatening danger zone last week, the MPL said. “Two gun-toting men allegedly entered the waiting room at the clinic in Kwazakhele at about 1:10pm and held a male patient at gunpoint. “They stole the patient’s car-keys , helped themselves to his vehicle and drove off with his phone, his wallet and the contents of his car.” More security measures were needed in the metro to ensure that this did not happen again. “It is cruel, life-threatening, out of place in a building devoted to Health Care and a major fear for staff and fragile patients, weakened by disease and pain,” said Barker. Barker also mentioned four robberies that happened at New Brighton Clinic in September, a stabbing inside Veeplaas Clinic in August and a robbery and alleged assault at the Zwide Clinic in July. Barker said funds should be made available for sufficient 24-hour security at these facilities to control free access at the gates. Provincial health spokesperson Siyanda Manana said they were aware of the break-ins at the clinics and were trying hard to improve security. “We are concerned about the break-ins, vandalism and the stealing at these clinics. We must also take this opportunity to urge members of the community to guard jealously against these ills happening at these clinics. This is not acceptable,” said Manana. “The DA appreciates the efforts by the Department of Health to improve security at the New Brighton clinic, but Health MEC Phumza Dyantyi must ensure that all clinics are no-go places for criminals,” said Barker. 