Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. (Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Controversy surrounding the hiring of President Robert Mugabe's son in-law as second in command at the troubled national carrier, Air Zimbabwe, is reportedly  "deepening", as he is alleged to be under qualified for the post.   According to The Standard, it took just 20 working days for Air Zimbabwe to hire Simba Chikore as its new Chief Operating Officer (COO).  Political analyst Pedzisai Ruhanya said that Air Zimbabwe must make public the processes it took to hire senior executives. Reports indicated that the same national carrier last month appointed late vice president Simon Muzenda's son, Ripton, as its new CEO "under a dark cloud".  "The aviation industry is a sensitive sector. It is not a tomato manufacturing plant and Chikore as well as the ministry should shame their detractors and reveal not only the process and procedures followed before his appointment, but his qualifications and experience as well," Ruhanya was quoted as saying. Those who worked with Chikore in previous years were quoted as saying that he had no managerial experience.  Vacancy notice  Chikore has been described as "inexperienced", as measured against the job requirements in the vacancy notice advertised in September. Human resources expert Memory Nguwi was quoted as saying that on average "it takes at least three months to recruit senior officers like chief executive or COO". Chikore, 39, was confirmed as the new COO of the national carrier last week. Transport and Infrastructure Development Minister Joram Gumbo maintained that Mugabe's son-in-law's credentials "actually surpass the required qualifications". Chikore was reported to have been one of more than 100 applicants for the post. Mugabe, 92, frequently uses Air Zimbabwe for official and personal foreign trips. Mugabe's only daughter Bona married Chikore in a glittering ceremony in 2014.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  