Iavan Pijoos, News24Zukisa Kela's uncle Sibongile Kela talking to reporters at the scene of his nephew's murder. (Mpho Raborife, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A police officer on standby at the time of the Rhodes Park rape and double murder, testified on Thursday that two pairs of underwear were found at the scene."One male and one female pair of underwear were found at the scene. There was also a cellphone found," Maanda Thivhilingwi told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge.Thivhilingwi was the fifth State witness called to testify in the trial of Thabo Nkala, 25, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32. They have pleaded not guilty to charges of rape, murder, and robbery with aggravating circumstances.They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park in Kensington on the evening of Saturday, October 17, 2015. They allegedly forced the women&rsquo;s husbands, Zukisa Khela and Sizwe Tyeke, to strip before forcing them into the lake, where they drowned. Thivhilingwi looked straight ahead and responded softly to the questions posed by prosecutor Mutuwa Nengovhela.He said he arrived at the park that evening and met a Constable Tshabalala, who told him that a group of men had attacked two women and thrown their husbands into the lake.Constable Bambatha Jan Tshabalala testified for the State earlier. Thivhilingwi said he told Tshabalala to accompany the two women to the local police station. He stayed behind and arranged for police divers. They arrived around 21:00 and retrieved the bodies. He called paramedics, who arrived and confirmed the men had died. "When the photographer was taking photos, there was underwear and a cellphone lying on the ground. I called the mortuary," he said.He said the phone was dry.&nbsp; &nbsp;Thivhilingwi was asked to take a look at a photo album. He confirmed that the two pairs of underwear and the phone were the items he had seen at the scene.The trial was adjourned until Friday.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.