Mahlatse Gallens Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  SANEF’S SPEECH by
Mahlatse Gallens – Sanef Chairperson  Her Excellency chair of the African Union Commission Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini-Zuma – Our guests who have seen it fit to support us – sharing our
fundamental belief that media freedom, is the people’s freedom My colleagues at SANEF, Good Evening... Tonight is a special night for us - SANEF came of age last
week – we are now 20 years and a week old. It has been heart -warming reading some of the contributions
of our founding members – tonight we salute them for their vision to unite
the  country’s editors  and 
media  practitioners beyond the
racial and  ideological  divide, recognising that united we stand and
divided we fall. SANEF today is the most representative organisation of our
media landscape and perhaps the only voice to represent our craft.  We have among us, those from the public and
private broadcasters, print and online media, community radio stations and
newspapers and academics. Ours founders committed to be the voice of ethical
journalism, defenders of media freedom and ridding the industry of all past
discriminations, whether racial or gender. They realised that though the dark days of the apartheid
regime that included jailing journalists, torturing them and forcing them into
exile were behind us, for the constitution to come alive it needed committed
champions. As we mark two decades of our organisation, it gives us an
opportunity to reflect on the journey traversed so far.  And ours has been a roller coaster ride, we
have found ourselves sometimes at odds with those in authority. But as SANEF we appreciate that the lines of communication
remain open – and we are still able to thrash out the differences – even though
sometimes of course we walk away agreeing to disagree. It is unfortunate that sometimes dialogue has not always
resolved our differences and we have been unable to find each other but instead
our battles have ended in the courts. Most recently we were in the Supreme Court of Appeals, challenging
the infamous signal jamming incident and the parliamentary feed service that
remained locked on the speaker while a scuffle was unfolding between security
services and members of parliament. We do hope the SCA ruling that found that it was all
unconstitutional is the end of that battle as we believe it was a victory not
only for press freedom but for transparency for all South Africans. We believe
they have the right to see in full what happens in the esteemed house and the
actions of their members of parliament, whom they elected to guard our hard won
constitution and to hold the executive accountable. Unfortunately 20 years on we still have more than 100 laws
that still need to be repealed or amended to bring them in line with the
constitution. We sadly have had incidences where for example section 205
of the criminal Procedures Act has been invoked on journalists despite a record
of understanding reached between SANEF and the ministers of Justice and
security and the Director of Public Prosecution in 1999. We continue to call for the Protection of Information Bill
or Secrecy Bill, still on the President’s desk to be taken to the
constitutional court for ratification before being signed into law. Madam chair, I also want to say we not always a group of wingers
as some have labelled the 4th estate.  We have heard some of the criticism in our
society and responded to it. One of the major things we did last few years was to
contribute to the major transformation of the Press Council.  You will be glad to know that it now operates
under a system of co-regulation.  The
voices of the public dominates the council and our title editors have committed
to ensuring that any censure by the ombudsman is carried out to the full. Where we have been found wanting,  we have apologised and it’s no longer in a
small,  hidden  section of our newspapers but those apologies
have been given the prominence in our newspapers and even bill boards.  The BCCSA continues to deal credibly with
complaints in the broadcast sector. Of course we continue to strive to get it right the first time.  However despite this major achievement that
also extended the press council to include online platforms, that matter of the
Media Appeals Tribunal remains a dark cloud that hangs above the industry following
calls by the ANC for parliament to investigate its desirability We are also responding to the precarious situation our
journalists find themselves in while covering increasingly violent protests. We
have identified training for hostile environment as a major project in coming
months.  We have also pledged to deepen
awareness amongst communities of the role of media. This followed attacks on
journalists by the members of communities during protests. We have also continued talks with SAPS, on Standing Order
156 that regulates our interaction.   We
are encouraging our journalists to formally lay complaints with the police, so
we can formally record the incidents and ensure that they are investigated and  those found guilty are brought to book. The SAPS leadership has agreed with us that it is illegal for the uniformed personnel
to remove footage or forcibly remove members of the press from crime scenes. We
look forward to further engagements with SAPS after they indicated they want standing
order 156 to include social media. Madam chair – while we highlight the threats from state, we
also continue to introspect, realising that we are also facing threats from
within the industry. In the current tough economic conditions, that have seen our
newsrooms shrinking and sales of print products also on the decline, we have
seen heightened interference of publishers and media executives extending their
hands on editorial pages and news programming. It is only with a united media, with
enough resources that we can continue to push back the attempts of
interference. . SANEF remains committed to a diverse media.  One of our flagship programmes is to train
young women journalists in media management training – to break the glass
ceiling that has been a barrier to their career progression. Madam chair we have also heard the criticism from our
colleagues at African Editors Forum that while SANEF was at the forefront of
bringing together the continent’s editors – we have dropped the ball. So this week’s workshop between TAEF and African Union to
popularise AGENDA 2063 to make it a living documents in our newsrooms was part
of our renewed contribution to the pan African ideals of both TAEF and the AU. We
were encouraged by your pledge to champion media freedom in your interaction
with the heads of state.  We will be a
partner with you in this regard. As I end, to my colleagues at SANEF, as we begin a new
decade, we need to recommit ourselves in presence,  time and action to ensure that we continue to
be the voice of our craft,  always aware
of our added responsibility to a quality brand of journalism, where ethics are
sacrosanct as we speak truth to power. We start this new era, encouraged by our partners that have
heard our calls for support to ensure that this vibrant glorious movement of
our editors, senior editorial executives and media trainers and academics has
the financial resources to survive what is a truly treacherous period. They dug
deep into their corporate pockets to be part of strengthening Sanef and through
us, strengthening our democracy. Let’s go out and spread the word, because united victory is
certain.    