Jeanette Chabalala, News24Tshiamo (Supplied to News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; A Soweto mother says she has been feeling bereft since her toddler was abducted during a house robbery on Tuesday night.&ldquo;I am not in a good space and I just feel empty and torn inside. A part of me is dead and I can&rsquo;t even express the way I feel,&rdquo; Mandisa Mlambo told News24 on Wednesday.&ldquo;I keep asking myself if he is still alive. I also can&rsquo;t stop thinking about his smile. He has so much energy and loves playing with his toys,&rdquo; she said.The 14-month-old toddler, Tshiamo, was taken during a robbery at their home in Protea Glen, Extension 28, Soweto.He was dressed in blue jeans and a grey jacket. He was sleeping when the two men who broke into their house took him.&ldquo;I felt helpless and there was nothing I could do to stop them when they took him,&rdquo; Mlambo said.'Worst thing ever'The 29-year-old said she returned home from work at 20:30 and noticed two men standing at the corner of her house. They attacked her and forced her into her house. Armed with a knife, they demanded money from her and the nanny.&ldquo;What happened was the worst thing ever. I wouldn&rsquo;t wish something like this on anyone. I was held hostage at our own home, a place I call my comfort zone.&rdquo;After the suspects took the money she had on her, they forced Mlambo into her car and went to Protea Glen shopping mall, where she was told to withdraw money from the ATM. She did not know how much money was taken.They returned to the house and took cellphones, clothes, and other items. They also took the sleeping toddler. They tied Mlambo and the nanny up with a rope. The women managed to free themselves around 05:30 in the morning and asked neighbours for help.Police spokesperson Captain Mpande Khoza said the suspects later withdrew more money from Mlambo&rsquo;s account at an ATM in Johannesburg.&nbsp; &ldquo;We are following every lead and we will keep tracing their movements,&rdquo; he said.Anyone with information about the crime could contact Colonel van Wyk on 082-308-7487.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.