Fadia Salie with Fin24 team See the live updates as they happened when News24 Frontline hosted Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas to discuss the mini budget. Jump to bottom I have a solid support network, says Pravin GordhanCape Town - "It's not easy to be a target and simultaneously serve the country, but you have a main focus and that's to draw up a credible budget and make sure we put South Africa's best foot forward."This was the response from Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Thursday when he was asked if the fraud charges brought against him by the National Prosecuting Agency (NPA) affected his preparations for the budget.Gordhan said he has a "wonderful team" at National Treasury - individuals who choose to stay amid difficult circumstances. "They can work elsewhere, but they choose to work at Treasury. We should applaud them. They stay there, do their work and commit themselves to South Africa."Bloomberg asks: In February we asked if you still feel if you have political backing - do you still feel that way? And do you feel the mini budget is credible enough to relay fears of ratings agencies? &nbsp; Gordhan: Our preoccupation is not with the ratings agencies - it is to put SA on the right direction. Minister Gordhan silhouetted against SARS building in background. Symbolic. #news24pravin pic.twitter.com/LPrLncfiW8Gordhan: I said in an interview it was political mischief (re next week). #News24PravinGordhan on fraud charges: &quot;I don&#39;t know what you want to know about it.&quot; #News24Pravin https://t.co/hdxVFlhXnh pic.twitter.com/FpLnWXv3gjGordhan answers:Bottom line is there is agreement that SAA and SA Express should be looked into re consolidation. When we get to the end result we will have to make a decision and start a process. They carry guarantees and there is room for rationalisation. It might take another 6 to 9 months. On telecom side our intent must be to seek rational solutions and synergies. We need to get things DONE quickly rather than just talk. &nbsp; On education: There used to be a single portfolio - it is a matter of choice and about where we find ourselves in development. &nbsp; Re next week: There is still a lot of noise in the air. What else can one say except - I am choosing my words carefully - I told Bloomberg this is just political mischief - CEOs in support call it politically motivated - I leave it to you to work that out. &nbsp; &nbsp; Questions from the floor:Question 1: KPMG representative asks on inclusiveness: You seem to speak alone about this - does the rest of government agree? Are you acting as a team as a government in other words? &nbsp; Question 2: Media24 - You indicated the need to see education as a whole - can you explain - would it not help to consolidate portfolios in a single education portfolio? And secondly: Can you give some idea of how you are building up to the court date next week? &nbsp; Question 3: Francois Conradie: Can you say something about equity partner for SOEs? USER QUESTION:Edward Hilton: Minister Gordhan, if the opportunity arose for you to become SA president in the next term would you be available and willing to take it? Gordhan now taking questions from the FrontLine audience. https://t.co/TBHFAUrGVR #News24Pravin pic.twitter.com/XX01cFBfvzGordhan on SOEs: &quot;We don&#39;t want boards pointing fingers, or the middle finger, to the PFMA&quot;. #News24Pravin @News24Gordhan: politics is politics. Has been single most disruptive factor throughout the world #news24pravinMcebisi Jonas: Party barons aren't good for democracy Cape Town - South Africans place too much emphasis on political parties and party barons aren't good for democracy, Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said on Thursday. Jonas was part of a National Treasury delegation appearing on News24 Frontline on Thursday morning. Interviewed by News24 s video editor Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath and senior Fin24 journalist Matthew le Cordeur, Jonas said politics plays an increasingly important role in the world in which we live. "If we have the right political environment, you can create certainty and ensure investor confidence," Jonas said. "Unfortunately bad politics aren't good for the economy."Tell us about your support network? &nbsp;Gordhan: My family and colleagues at Treasury - it is not easy for Treasury workers&nbsp;to be a target while serving SA in the best way they can. Let us applaud them. News24: Next week you (Gordhan) will appear in court. &nbsp; Gordhan: In our work you always have a main focus and our team's responsibility has been to produce a credible mini budget and to put the best foot forward for the country. The rest we will worry about next week. Question: About bolstering confidence - what are international investors still concerned about regarding SA?Gordhan: Portfolio investors include far sighted ones who see huge opportunities in SA and Africa - for example the Chinese coming in. SA Inc needs to see a greater indication that we want FDI to come in. Portfolio investors want to know that their money is safe here. They want to know if politics will be unsettling and if we can rely on our institutions. USER QUESTION:Abe Mosiuoa&nbsp; (Former Councillor): Hon. Minister &nbsp; Isn't it high time for the treasury to deduct a certain amount from these sleeping MPs... the so-called President included, who are constantly taking a nap during sittings? My take is that, they earn a lot of money for doing almost nothing except to vote!&nbsp; &nbsp; Question regarding nuclear and renewable energy: There seems to be a disconnect between Eskom and Treasury. &nbsp; Gordhan: We have one government and one Constitution - so anything anybody does in government you have to stick to the rules. YOUR VIEWS:Motsamai Mofokeng: Firstly, let me thank Minister Pravin Gordhan for giving us hope and for resembling all that our movement, ANC cadres were supposed to be (selfless, integrity and lots of humility). My questions to the finance minister: 1. HOW much contribution did the president of the country contribute to this budget if any? The question is asked in light of the perceived tensions between the finance and the president. 2. The minister mentioned that treasury has received lots of proposal/models which they're considering for free higher education for the poor. Do this models include the Wits students models? If no, why not? Thank you again for being a good role model!Regarding SOEs:Gordhan: We want to see projects guided by law. We don't want to see boards showing the middle finger to good governance and financial matters. Question should be if it poses a fiscal risk. USER QUESTION:Margie Pretorius: Minister Jonas says we need active citizenry to talk to government. The amaMpondo people of the Xolobeni area are trying to talk to government but government won't listen!&nbsp; Please comment on the report released by the NGO Sustaining the wild Coast last week claiming that the Wild Coast toll road would be a gross abuse of tax payers billions. Viewer question: Can we introduce an education tax? &nbsp; Gordhan: All proposals will be considered. News24: Where will the money come from? R17.6bn proposed. &nbsp; Gordhan: What are we actually saying: We have 0.5% growth - so less tax coming in. Also have to consolidate our debt. With all these threats, we must use expenditure constraints and secondly you shift priorities. Gordhan: The distribution of funds for education as a whole - including basic education - is important to look at. &nbsp; USER QUESTION:Songezo Ralarala: What is the possibility of The Department of Finance declaring December as tax free month as a way of thanking&nbsp; taxpayers for their continued support and contribution? &nbsp; News24: Yesterday you (Gordhan) went to speak to the students outside Parliament. What is a realistic timeframe for their demands?Gordhan: When you have large movements of people around a cause, maximalist demands often emerge. We have to be careful and place these matters into perspective. Our policy is clear, the poor ones will be taken care of. We also said we received a number of technical proposals which we need time to evaluate. The essence is how to leverage the fiscus and private sector resources. Those who can afford to pay must pay, that is clear. We need a pragmatic approach where we recognise difficulties and realise certain shifts take place and we find money now and in February and also look at it long term. The aim is to relieve pressure on poor students BUT we need to look at the education system as a whole. Some prospect must improve for people every day #News24Pravin pic.twitter.com/pibTsWpCFvGordhan: We have done well but we need to bring the pack together to overcome challenges #news24pravin pic.twitter.com/vuyI2amuoD Jump to top