Kailene Pillay, The Witness An Ernest Tooth Road resident has had ongoing problems with sewage overflowing and flooding her yard since last year.  (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A Scottsville family have been left scrubbing, cleaning and refurnishing their entire house after numerous sewage floods wrecked their long-time family home.  Sarah Hope-Johnstone of Ernest Tooth Road said she was told a brick lodged in one of the pipelines is the cause of the continuous flooding.  Hope-Johnstone said her home and yard had become a “complete health hazard” with faeces, toilet paper and condoms floating among the sewage.  As recently as last Sunday, Hope-Johnstone said she pleaded with the Msunduzi Municipality to rectify the situation. “The flooding started some time last year when the municipality installed a new pipeline in the area. Ever since then whenever it rains, my yard is flooded,” she said.  In March this year, Hope-Johnstone said she had made two major insurance claims after the sewage flooded her kitchen, lounge and other rooms in her house. “I had to have my carpets, kitchen cupboards, passage cupboards and many other things replaced because the water was ankle-deep,” she said.  The house has belonged to the family for more than 20 years, but Hope-Johnstone and her family of four have been living there for the past seven years.  After numerous “back and forth” e-mails with managers in Msunduzi Municipality, her previous and current ward councillors, and the municipal call centre, Hope-Johnstone said she still has not received any joy.  The deluge of sewage usually floods Hope-Johnstone’s kitchen entrance and back yard leading to her swimming pool and entertainment area.  “We cannot plan braais at our house anymore because we never know whether we will walk out to sewage or not,” she said.  Now, she said, the sewage is leaking onto her neighbour’s property and onto the road. She said municipal workers often come to clean her property but “they use my water and electricity to clean up”.  “Last weekend six workers came to clean using one broken broom. It is now completely ridiculous and frustrating to say the least,” she said.  Msunduzi Municipality did not respond to questions by the time of going to print.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  