Nokuthula.KhanyilePHOTO: nokuthula khanyile ER24 medics Lungelo Ntombela (left) and his partner Oscar Meyiwa. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories AN ER24 medic, Lungelo Ntombela , recalled how he was attacked on Saturday night after he and his colleagues stopped to assist at a motor vehicle collision.Speaking to the Maritzburg Echo, Ntombela from Howick, said he was still shaken after being stabbed and assaulted when he and his colleagues came across a collision on Ohrtmann Road. We were on our way to Northdale Hospital with two patients when we saw the collision and our first instinct was to stop and see if anyone was injured. He said he remained in the ambulance with the two patients while his partners went to assess the incident. My colleagues put up road cones, I don t know what happened, but the next thing I heard one of the occupants from one of the vehicles involved verbally abusing my colleague, he was shouting hey you white boy come over here, I ll f*** you up . Ntombela said he then got out of the ambulance and went to intervene and that was when he was assaulted. I got in between them to find out what the argument was about and this guy just punched me in the face. I later established that my colleague had told them the police were on the way and they just started verbally abusing him. Another occupant presented a knife and stabbed me once below my left eye and once in the hand. He said a member of the public then stepped in and disarmed the knife-wielding man.Ntombela said he also sustained several bruises. I have been a medic for four years and this has never happened to me before on duty. The sad thing is we were only trying to help, and there was no conflict that may have led to the attack, he said.ER24 has confirmed the incident. Court appearanceFOUR suspects appeared before the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate s Court on Tuesday after they were arrested for assaulting an ER24 medic.Ivan Francis (54), Omega Nzimande (25), Shayden Francis (19) and Rakesh Saden (41) appeared briefly in court facing charges of assault. Their case was adjourned until 5 October.The state said it still needed to obtain their profiles, verify their addresses and there was still outstanding documentation to be obtained by the police.The four are facing charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, driving under the influence of alcohol as well as resisting arrest.According to a charge sheet presented at court, it is alleged the four attacked ER24 medic Lungelo Ntombela on Saturday night when he and his colleagues came across a collision on Ohrtmann Road. They allegedly stabbed him with a knife and hit him with a baseball and clenched fists.The state said it intends to oppose bail.Advocate Reshen Pillay, who was representing the four accused, told the court they said they required medical treatment since they were attacked on the night of the alleged incident.The four will remain in custody until their next appearance.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.