File: AFP Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories President Jacob Zuma is expected to visit Harare this week for the inaugural session of the Bi-National Commission between Zimbabwe and South Africa. News24 Correspondent Harare - Rumours have been flying on social media - and now conservationists on the ground are confirming it: Jericho, the coalition partner of Zimbabwe's most famous lion Cecil, has died.Oh no, what happened?For now it's unclear. But there's no suggestion he died at the hands of a hunter, as Cecil did last year. Apparently he'd been seen ailing during a game count in Hwange National Park last month."He was a majestic old lion that lived and died in the wild &ndash; just as it should be,"&nbsp;Friends of Hwange&nbsp;said. Cecil was around 13 when he died. Looks like Jericho was at least that age. Bb the way, Cecil and Jericho weren't actually blood brothers, just partners in a lion coalition. Jericho has been protecting (in a passive way, according to top conservationist Brent Stapelkamp&nbsp;in this FB post) Cecil's cubs.&nbsp;Lions of Hwange National Park&nbsp;say an autopsy is being carried out.Hang on, wasn't Jericho already dead?No, that report in August 2015 was fake. The group that reported Jericho dead then - raising fears for the survival of Cecil's cubs - later admitted it was a case of mistaken identity.Is this the end for Cecil's pride?Very unlikely.&nbsp;It's true that when an "outside" male takes over a pride he will often kill cubs - and Cecil had around seven of them. But they're older now and sources in Hwange say most of them are girls (so they may be seen by new males in a very different light).What effect did Cecil's death have on the conservation sector in Zimbabwe?It certainly raised Zimbabwe's profile perhaps in ways the authorities may not have wished: Cecil, after all, became a worldwide phenomenon. Zimbabwe tightened rules on hunting as the Cecil media frenzy reached a peak.&nbsp;Some conservation groups argue that the "Cecil effect" - the global backlash against lion hunting - may not be a good thing.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.