Kailene Pillay, The WitnessMsunduzi ready for bulk water maintenance, asks residents to go easy on the taps. (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE first of four planned 30-hour water shutdowns over the next few weeks in the city will start on Tuesday. Msunduzi Municipality has assured customers that the city is ready for the shutdown, but also pleaded with residents to use water wisely. Umgeni Water will shut down production of potable water at the Midmar Water Works and DV Harris Treatment Plant for maintenance. Umgeni Water spokesperson Shami Harichunder said Msunduzi, eThekwini and uMgungundlovu municipalities would be affected by the shutdown. &ldquo;These shutdowns will allow Umgeni Water to conduct essential work in order to enhance the assurance of water supply in future,&rdquo; Harichunder said. But this does not necessarily mean the city will be left without water for the 30 hours. To avoid the possible risk of water shortages occurring, Harichunder said an increased supply of water was delivered to each municipality before the shutdown. He said shutdowns of this nature usually last 20 hours, but 30 hours was allocated for the work to be completed. &ldquo;Umgeni Water will make every effort and implement all practical measures to ensure that flow rates are increased to ensure that each system is stable before each shutdown occurs,&rdquo; he said, adding that the water authority would also assess each system with the municipalities for confirmation before proceeding with the shutdown. &ldquo;It must be reiterated that Umgeni Water is a bulk water services provider and, therefore, cannot be held responsible if water supply interruptions or shortages occur within the reticulation systems of municipalities,&rdquo; he said. Umgeni Water has planned four 30-hour shutdowns over the next few weeks. Tuesday&rsquo;s shutdown would be followed by others on October 25, and November 1 and 15. Msunduzi spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha said the reservoirs had enough water to sustain the city through the 30-hour shutdown. &ldquo;We are happy for Umgeni Water to continue with the shutdown and their maintenance. But at the same time we plead with residents to use water sparingly to ensure we do not run out.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.