Monique Duval @Monique_Duval An Ysterplaat resident has warned residents to be careful when using the N1 highway to cross the railway line between Brooklyn and Maitland after he was robbed and stabbed. PHOTO: MONIQUE DUVAL Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Maitland police have warned residents crossing the N1 highway to be careful as a knife-wielding robber is on the prowl. This follows the recent attack on an Ysterplaat resident. Daniel Victor Braude says a morning walk to work has left him scarred after a robber appeared out of nowhere and tried to take his bag. Braude says he was passing the area over the railway line on Thursday 6 October shortly after 08:30 when he felt someone pull on his backpack. I had my bag over my one arm and I was carrying clothes and other stuff. This guy came out of nowhere and tried to take my bag, he says. A scuffle ensued as Braude was not willing to part with his valuables. The robber then revealed a knife and lunged towards Braude. I blocked him with my arm and he stabbed me. I looked at him and I realised he would kill me, so I let him have the bag and in seconds he went under the railway line and he was gone. Braude took People s Post to the exact location of the incident and here many people could be seen walking between Brooklyn and Maitland. Braude says after the incident he went to Maitland Police Station to report the matter but the station was busy and he was concerned about the wound getting infected so he left and made his way to the doctor. Police spokesperson Constable Lorencial Johnson says the area is known for robberies and in many cases suspects use knives or rocks to threaten victims. He warns residents not to fight the robber but rather hand over their valuables to avoid getting hurt. These robberies would normally turn very violent when people resist. The robber only wants your valuables. They want it to be quick and easy without getting caught. He says these robberies occur in the mornings as people make their way to work and when they return in the afternoon. However, there have been cases where robbers attack during the day. Directly under the bridge is an informal settlement and it is believed that this is the hiding place for these criminals. On 26 August this year, an operation was carried out by Maitland police, Maitland City Improvement District and various other roleplayers and more than 50 people were taken in for questioning and profiling those who were occupying derelict buildings. A nearby derelict building was demolished on the same day. This was done to relocate people living in the building following reports of illegal activities. Sadly, the problem cannot be solved by demolishing derelict buildings as the people who stayed there will just go look for another place to occupy. Maitland police have also issued a plea to residents to avoid walking alone in this area, to conceal all valuables and be aware of their surroundings. When you suspect that you are being followed or you think you might become a victim of a robbery, try to get the attention of someone or try to get to a busier area as quick as you can, he concludes. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.