News24 Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Mbombela - A man who hacked his wife to death with a spade after she admitted cheating on him, has been sentenced to 13 years&rsquo; imprisonment by the Nelspruit Circuit of the High Court.Judge Zeenat Carelse sentenced Erense Fanafana Mpangane, 30, on Tuesday.&ldquo;I am satisfied that you admitted all elements of the plea, and that you have taken full responsibility for killing the deceased,&rdquo; she told him.Mpangane, from Bhuikutso Trust outside Bushbuckridge, was arrested on February 1, after he struck Vivian Ntabiseng Monareng over the head with a spade three times, in what he claimed was an "emotional situation".He fractured her skull and inflicted multiple injuries to her body. She was a third-year student at the University of Venda.Mpangane confessed to the murder through a statement his lawyer, Francois Kriel, read to the court. He said the argument started at their home in Bhuikutso Trust on January 29, after she told him she had been cheating on him with another man.During their quarrel her boyfriend phoned and she ran inside the house and locked the door.&ldquo;I took the spade, broke open the door and went inside. We quarrelled again and she then told me that she was pregnant and I was not the father. She also said I was not the biological father of our six-year-old daughter,&rdquo; he said.Monareng said she got out of the house through a window, and he followed her, still holding the spade. He attacked her with it."I admit I had no right to hack her with the spade. I got angered by the fact that she was having an affair, whilst I was the one supporting her studies at the university," he said.Monareng&rsquo;s sister Eva had testified that the family knew nothing about the pregnancy. The doctor who performed the post mortem also found no signs of pregnancy. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.