Robert Mugabe. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Zimbabwean national hero Cephas George Msipa who died on Monday would be laid to rest at the country’s national hero’s shrine in Harare. According to the State owned Herald newspaper, the veteran politician who had become one of President Robert Mugabe’s tough critics had wished to be buried next to his wife at the Midlands provincial heroes’ shrine. However, following serious consultation with the ruling Zanu-PF and government, the family agreed to bury him at the national heroes’ shrine. A family spokesperson, Masimba Msipa said that the late struggle veteran’s body would be expected at the family home on Thursday before being transferred to the Mandava stadium. Follow News24 Africa on Facebook and Twitter. Mugabe was expected to be amongst the dignitaries at Msipa’s funeral. According to New Zimbabwe, Msipa was a staunch critic of  Mugabe regime after his retirement from office. He was reportedly instrumental in bringing the late Joshua Nkomo’s Zapu to the table with President Mugabe's Zanu-PF after the dreaded Gukurahundi massacre in the early 80s. Wide spread reports indicated that during his last days, Msipa was trying to advice president Mugabe to step down. Last year the former governor made headlines after he said that  Zanu-PF party supporters were not challenging President Mugabe enough to make him realise that he was destroying the ruling party Msipa said Zimbabweans failed to condemn Mugabe in instances where he went wrong. "…Mugabe is doing what he is doing because no one is telling him enough to say no, no, no what you are doing is wrong. He goes everywhere and people would ululate and so he thinks he is right. I mean any leader would do that until people say no, no, what you are doing is wrong," the late Msipa was quoted as saying at the time.      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  