Tammy Petersen, News24Parked cars. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A Democratic Alliance ward councillor appeared in the Simon's Town Magistrate's Court on Monday on an assault charge, after a scuffle over parking allegedly left a Fish Hoek man with a broken arm.Simon Liell-Cock is accused of kicking Michael Kerr during a brawl which ended in Fish Hoek Main Road on Wednesday, October 19.Kerr, 57, said he had wanted to take his frail wife to the shops at lunch time that day. When he got to his car, he found a Land Rover parking him in.He found that the vehicle had a councillor&rsquo;s sticker and went to the nearby provincial government office to try and find its owner.A security guard told Kerr that the car belonged to Liell-Cock."The councillor came out and apologised, but tried to postpone moving his vehicle. I told him if he didn&rsquo;t do it now, I would put down his tyres. He became aggressive and pointed his finger in my face."Kerr insisted that Liell-Cock move his car immediately.He said he followed the councillor out of the office."He, at one point, suddenly turned and I bumped into him. He told me not to push him, and I said that I did not, I was trying to leave the building."'Didn&rsquo;t even apologise'When they got to the vehicle, Kerr said the councillor again told him he would move the car when he had time."I repeated that I would let his tyres down. He then stepped away from the car and stood there, looking at me, as if to say 'Go ahead, do it'.&rdquo;Kerr said he kneeled down and tried to find a key with a sharp edge to do just that."I bent over, while trying to find a suitable key, when he kicked me in the arm. I instinctively grabbed his leg and lifted him. He [stumbled] backward and when he regained his balance he tried to kick me in the [groin]," Kerr alleged.Kerr admitted that he landed a few punches, but nothing to cause significant damage."I would have been happy if I broke his nose," he insisted.Liell-Cock - who allegedly repeatedly tried to kick Kerr - apparently suffered a bruised lip.The scuffle continued until the duo ended up in the road and Kerr dropped his keys."He then went to his car and I went to mine. While driving, I realised my arm was starting to become swollen and I went to the police station to lay an assault charge."An X-ray showed his arm had been broken in five places."He didn&rsquo;t even apologise for his actions," Kerr said.'Not in his right mind'But according to Liell-Cock, Kerr was "not in his right mind", and the incident was a "minor altercation"."I was ready to get into my car when he tried to push the key into the valve. I used my foot to move his hand away. I had no problem with moving my car - I didn&rsquo;t know I had parked illegally because the road line was faded," he said.He has laid charges of crimen injuria and assault against Kerr, saying he suffered a cut lip, scratched cheek and a punch to the temple."He was crowding, pushing and shoving me," Liell-Cock insisted, accusing Kerr of turning the incident into a political issue.The case against the councillor was postponed to November 23 for mediation.City of Cape Town speaker Dirk Smit said the matter, which could be a breach of the code of conduct for councillors, had been brought to his attention."I regard the allegation as a serious matter and am in the process of accumulating information so that I can apply my mind on whether I should take action as prescribed by the code of conduct," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.