Tammy Petersen, News24 Police officers. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - An 18% expenditure increase for the SAPS VIP Protection Services could have gone a long way to addressing the "woeful state of affairs" at station level, DA Shadow Minister of Police Zakhele Mbhele said on Sunday. "The SAPS Annual Report for 2015/16 has revealed that actual expenditure on VIP Protection Services went up 18% from R977.9 million in 2014/15 to R1.16 billion in 2015/16," He said in a statement. "This exorbitant amount spent on the pampered executive elite, and the increase thereof from last year, is shameful, especially when one takes into account the chronic state of under-resourcing of police stations across South Africa." "The SAPS has been characterised by the four U’s, being under-resourced, under-staffed, under-equipped and under-trained, which have a direct impact on their ability to carry out their mandate of keeping South Africans safe. "Not only are there usually too few operational officers at station level, but they are also short of the basic equipment, such as vehicles, radios, and protective gear to carry out their jobs." Mbhele said the money could have been used to address policing issues at local level, which according to crime statistics had increased since last year. He hoped the police's "back-to-basics" approach for the current financial year would "demonstrate a marked departure from this kind of excess". "Our people, rather than politicians, must be put first. The amount spent on VIP Protection Services clearly shows that the SAPS leadership had skewed priorities in the previous financial year and seemed to be more concerned with protecting and driving around VIP executives, rather than with spending money on better staffing, equipping and training of SAPS officers." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  