Nicole.JohnEDUCATION and youth are interlocked, like fragrance and flowers. Education is primarily meant for youth, since youth is the spring time of life when an individual has to blossom in terms of knowledge, wisdom and character. In the current democratic set-up of our country, it is as much the duty of youth as it is their right to receive proper quality education that will equip them for a peaceful life and enlightened citizenship. Education is not the mechanical acquisition of the dry bones of factual knowledge, entombed in books and superficial success at examinations with all their inherent defects is not the goal of educational endeavour. Education is a comprehensive and synthetic process which addresses itself to the development of the body, the nourishment of the mind, the sublimation of the emotions and the regeneration of the soul. It is a tragedy that, with the frightful advance of science man is progressively deteriorating into a state of savagery, murdering those basic virtues which lend dignity and charm to human nature. Our education will be a colossal waste and huge mockery if it does not inspire in the young an abiding faith in the eternal being and if it fails to inculcate in them a truly aesthetic sense which looks upon life as a magnificent opportunity for the attainment of perfection.The students of today are, in a real sense, the builders of tomorrow, in whose delicate hands trembles the future destiny of our land. It is therefore the duty of the teachers who have undertaken the important task of fashioning the students to train them in discipline and character, so that they may shoulder their responsibilities worthily when the time comes. Schools and universities are workshops of wisdom, seedbeds of character, and citadels of discipline and arsenals of democracy.Students who grow in the image of their teachers then imbibe unconsciously the essential elements of a noble character. The teacher s responsibilities in this direction has become very much magnified now because of the intrusion of several unhealthy agencies that seek to corrupt the minds of the young and neutralise the wholesome influence of organised instruction. <?em-dummytext br?=""?>A.S.E Ameen Mountain Rise24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.