Jeff Wicks, News24Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor and SA First Forum member addresses Cape Town Press Club. (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Firebrand former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has set her sights on President Jacob Zuma, challenging him to a public debate on state capture. This after Zuma asked to see the evidence gathered by Public Protector Thuli Madonsela in her probe into "state capture" on Monday. Hours later Mentor took to Facebook, the medium through which she first gained prominence for her announcement that she had been offered a Cabinet position by the Gupta family. "Dear Zuma, I spoke to the PP. I revealed things about you and about your folly relationship with the Gupta's through your son," she wrote. "I can go one-on-one with you on a publicly-televised hearing only after the PP releases her report, with or without you having responded to the questions she posed to you six months ago," Mentor added. "I am not scared of you, of your lies, your tricks, your delaying tactics, your attempted intimidation, your harassment, and what you normally do to people."You are a coward that hides behind state power all the time. Wherever have you heard a person that's being investigated by the PP making the silly demands you are making? Power has really ran to your head. I feel sorry for you," she said. In a statement issued by the Presidency on Monday, Zuma's demands for Madonsela's probe were laid out. Not only does the president want access to the evidence, but he or his legal representative should be allowed to question the witnesses who appeared in front of the Public Protector."President Jacob Zuma has written to the Public Protector, Advocate Thuli Madonsela, requesting her to allow him or his legal representative to question other witnesses, determined by the Public Protector, who have appeared before [her]," the statement read.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.