Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes Park in Kensington, Johannesburg. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; One of the women raped and assaulted at Rhodes Park last year has forgiven the men accused of killing her husband, she told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge on Wednesday."I forgive them. God will deal with them. These people do not know what type of person they killed," she said to questioning from prosecutor Monde Mbaqa.Asked how the crime had affected her, she stood up, adjusted the microphone, and took a deep breath."They took away a husband, friend, and a supporter in life. They took away a man that prayed before he died," she told the court.Many in the court cried in response to her testimony. She sobbed as the three accused watched her. They are Thabo Nkala, 25, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32.They have pleaded not guilty to charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder. They were allegedly part of a 12-man gang that attacked two couples walking in the park in Kensington on the evening of Saturday, October 17, 2015. The woman earlier testified that her attacker inserted two fingers into her vagina and anus.&lsquo;They got up and laughed'The victims&rsquo; husbands, were forced to undress and ordered to get into the lake, where they drowned.After their husbands were ordered into the water, only two members of the gang were left. One of them was very aggressive."One of the men said he was the boss now and that everyone should listen to him. The one with the firearm called the one holding a knife and whispered in his ear," she said.She said the one with the knife approached her and ordered her to lie on her back, to lift her skirt and open her legs."He then knelt in front of me and tried to insert his penis in my vagina about two or three times. He couldn't penetrate me and asked me to insert his penis myself," she said.He slapped her on the thigh saying, "insert this penis, insert it". He held a knife in his left hand."I tried to insert his penis about four or five times, but he couldn't penetrate me, because his penis was soft," she told the court.He inserted two fingers into her vagina for about five minutes. She could see the other woman with her legs up and the man with the gun raping her."After they were done, they got up and laughed, and said, 'you and your husbands are fools. You swim in a pool and not in a dam'."'We could still see bubbles in the water'They said blood was supposed to be spilled. The men left and the two women got up. The last thing she saw was a hand in the water."We asked the person with the hand to indicate whether it was [one of the husbands]."It looked like the person was trying to answer, before his hand disappeared under the water, she said.The two women ran to a nearby house and asked for help. Two men came out and called the police."We went back to the park with the police. We could still see bubbles in the water. We asked the police to take the two bodies out, but they told us they were not trained for that," she said.Officers told them they would call divers and they were taken to the Cleveland police station to make statements.A pastor told her that her husband had died.The woman indicated that she wasn't examined by a doctor, because she believed no one had penetrated her.Mbaqa asked her what she thought rape involved."At the time, I thought rape was when someone puts his penis in you. I was only made aware of it when a detective explained it to me," she said.The trial was postponed to October 27.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.