Two City of Cape Town traffic officers sustained slight injuries after being knocked down and assaulted by taxi drivers during operations, and a Metro Police officer was assaulted while making an arrest. Regardless, the officers managed to put the suspects behind bars. During Operation Throttle initiatives on the N2 last week, two City traffic officers were injured during the course of duty. On September 28, an officer was knocked down by a taxi driver after he was stopped for overtaking on the shoulder of the road. On September 29, another taxi driver assaulted an officer after he stopped him for the same offence. The taxi driver drove off, but the officer gave chase and managed to apprehend him. Both taxi drivers were charged for reckless and negligent driving.this past Sunday, a Metro Police officer was processing the arrest of a drunk driver when the passenger got out of the vehicle and assaulted him. The officer arrested the passenger and charged him with interfering with the duties of an officer and assault on a police officer. Both the driver and the passenger were detained at the Table View Police Station.While on patrol along Durban Road in Bellville last Saturday, officers noticed suspicious activity in a vehicle and asked the driver to pull off to the side of the road. The officers then searched the vehicle and found a brown box in the boot containing 186 pouches of khat. The driver was arrested on the spot and charged for being in possession of drugs.The Metro Police Department also received tip-offs about illegal drug activities taking place at residences in Parow and in Khayelitsha. In the Parow home, they found six packets of tik and arrested two suspects. Two SAPS officials assisted in the Khayelitsha home where they found one parcel of dagga and 28 sachets of dagga. The owner of the house was arrested for being in possession of drugs and was detained at the Khayelitsha Police Station.In total, officers arrested 118 suspects, issued 5 516 fines for various offences, and impounded 10 cellphones.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.