Thulani Gqirana, News24TUT student leader Lesego Benjamin Phehla. (Image: Sasco Gauteng via Twitter) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Students have started their march on the Union Buildings in Pretoria to call for free tertiary education, after another day of student protests.WATCHCape Town &ndash; Condolences are pouring in for Tshwane University of Technology student leader Lesego Benjamin Phehla, after he was killed when a car ploughed into protesting students.Young Communist League of South African national spokesperson Molaodi Wa Sekake said they were saddened by his passing.&nbsp;A number of students, including Phehla, sustained injuries and were taken to Dr George Mukhari Hospital, where Phehla subsequently died, after a driver lost control of his car and crashed into them. &ldquo;Comrade Lesedi was one of our loyal members in the campus who served the organisation selflessly and with passion,&rdquo; he said. The organisation relied on him and other comrades to broaden access, redress and success in TUT and other institutions of higher learning, the YCL said. &ldquo;Our structures must continue to struggle for transformation of their institution because that&rsquo;s what Cde Lesedi believed in. Comrade Lesedi knew that the call for free quality education for the poor is a mandate,&rdquo; the spokesperson said in a statement on Saturday. He called on all their members to unite and defend the struggle for quality education for the poor.Higher Education and Training minister Blade Nzimande also expressed his condolences.&ldquo;We have indeed learnt with sadness of the unfortunate passing of Mr Phehla, a student who was looking forward to a bright future as a professional. On behalf of the Department and our government, we join President Jacob Zuma in passing our heartfelt condolences and sympathies to the family&rdquo;, Nzimande said.Nzimande also called for calm and restraint from police and students after several students were injured when police fired rubber bullets at the University of Witwatersrand. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.