Kaveel Singh, News24President Jacob Zuma. (File, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - The ANCYL chairperson Collen Maine unequivocally put his weight behind President Jacob Zuma on Saturday calling for MK Veterans to arm themselves to defend President Jacob Zuma."Comrades from Umkonto we Sizwe bring your guns. Now is the time to defend the revolution. We must do it. Generations that came before did it. They sacrificed their lives."Maine was speaking at a "Hands Off Zuma" march in Durban. Over 4 000 attended the peaceful march from King Dinizulu Park to City Hall.Maine said that Zuma was not corrupt and that the "white monopoly" was dictating what happens in SA.'Bring on the junk status'He welcomed junk status saying millions were already there."Our people are already at junk status. What are we afraid of? We are already at junk status. We want junk status so that when the rand rises we must ask who controls the economy of SA."Attack on GordhanHe added that Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan was a deployee of the ANC and denounced his relations with the United States."What is so special about Gordhan," asks ANCYL Collen Maine #HandsOffZuma @News24 pic.twitter.com/dAtfTBX8pM"We cannot have ministers who are welcomed in the United States of America. Our friend in Russia [Vladimir] Putin shows the world how you deal with the US. Zuma has not yet moved an inch [for the US]. If Zuma will go down for anything, we will go down first defending him."He added that Zuma could do anything including "remove ministers who act like presidents"."The youth league will defend you. He is our president and we love him. The centre of power remains with the ANC. The enemy of the ANC today is the ANC itself."'Those in rural areas should lead'Maine said that those in rural areas should lead the country and continued his denouncing of Gordhan."Zuma must continue to fight the monopoly capital comrades. Pravin Gordhan is a deployee of the ANC. You cannot be deployed by the ANC and the president and you undermine him publicly."Maine added that if Zuma could go to court so could Gordhan.ANCYL chair Collen Maine says President Zuma is surrounded by snakes in ANC #HandsOffZuma @News24 pic.twitter.com/4i3ueCf4pY"We must come and defend democracy. We are calling on you, if Zuma can go to court why cannot Pravin Gordhan go to court?&nbsp; What is so important when you touch him [the] rand goes down?"Maine said the rand should weaken."We want the rand to further go down. We are poor, we sleep without food. We want to control our economy. Our people won the right to vote. Now we must win economic freedom."He said economic freedom began with treasury."It must happen by transforming treasury. So that we deploy revolutionaries who understand what the ANC wants to achieve." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.