Jeff Wicks, News24UKZN students march. (File) (Jeff Wicks) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A leading figure in the UKZN Fees Must Fall movement, Lukhanyo "Bhanda" Mtshingana, made a brief appearance in the Pinetown Magistrate's Court on Monday. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara said Mtshingana was released on R1 000 bail and faced charges of being involved in an illegal gathering. Allegations surfaced last week regarding the "brutal" manner in which he was arrested. INFOGRAPHIC: Everything you need to know about #FeesMustFallSpeaking to News24 on Friday, student Thando Bobo said he and other students were leaving Pietermaritzburg after a Fees Must Fall meeting in the early hours of Thursday when the Pietermaritzburg police's combined action team (CAT) blocked their vehicles and arrested Mtshingana. "On our way out, we were entering the highway and they blocked off our car, pointed guns at us, beat us. They beat Bhanda way more than they beat us. They called us kaffirs and tsotsis." Bobo said those who were not arrested, himself included, were forced to clean Mtshingana's blood off their vehicle following the alleged assault. "They made us wash his blood off the car we were driving. They confiscated a phone because we were taking pictures." READ: UKZN duo&rsquo;s prison &lsquo;hell&rsquo;According to Bobo, Mtshingana sustained a serious injury to his throat during the arrest. "During the altercation they hurt him, causing a hole in his throat. They are saying he was wanted by police, but he has been moving around on campus with police around and no one has done anything." According to Bobo, violence had earlier erupted at the UKZN Pietermaritzburg campus that resulted in a building being burnt. He said Mtshingana and the rest of his colleagues were not on campus when the incident occurred. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.