Amanda Khoza, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; A third person has died following a suspected revenge attack at a Hluhluwe homestead, a local councillor told News24 on Monday. &ldquo;Three people who survived the incident were hospitalised. I just got information that another person has succumbed to their burn injuries,&rdquo; Ward 7 councillor Phiwa Gumede, of the Big Five False Bay Local Municipality, said.A group of men set alight three rondavels at the Mdletshe family&rsquo;s homestead, in Mudulini village, on Saturday night. Gumede said when he arrived at the scene on Sunday morning, the surviving relatives had been moved to a safe area.KwaZulu-Natal Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said the five attackers locked one mentally challenged male and a woman inside a rondavel and set it alight. Police said both victims, Sifiso Nkosi and Nyanyekile Gumede, 61, died on the scene.A young man was attacked with bush knives but managed to escape.Kaunda said it appeared to have been a revenge attack after a member of the Mdletshe family stabbed a Nkosi family member at a traditional ceremony in the area two months earlier.Five family members arrestedHe said police arrested five members of the Nkosi family, including a traditional healer. They were expected to appear in the Hluhluwe Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Tuesday to face charges of murder, attempted murder, and arson.Kaunda pleaded with the two families to exercise restraint and allow the law to run its course. He expressed concern about the increase in the number of faction fights in the province.He said his department was trying to resolve conflicts in the Dabhasi area in Nongoma, where over 15 people had been killed since last year. In Esinyembeni, Mtubatuba, police were investigating three cases of murder. In Esdakeni, Ladysmith, 22 people had been killed since 2014. In Kietsdrift, Umsinga, last week, two people were gunned down. In KwaSwayimane, police were investigating 24 cases of murder.Local inkosi yaseMadletsheni in Hluhluwe, Inkosi Bonga Mdletshe condemned the killings.&nbsp;&ldquo;Problems will always be there in communities, but nothing warrants people being killed. From the little information that I have been received, I can tell that those people went there to kill them. Burning a house and killing innocent people is unacceptable.&rdquo;He called on people to resolve their disputes by bringing them to izindunas (headmen).24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.