Iavan Pijoos, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Terror accused twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie abandoned their bail application in the Johannesburg Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Tuesday.&nbsp;Both were dressed in formal shirts with taqiyahs on their heads, for their brief appearance. One of the brothers had a ponytail. &nbsp;&nbsp;Their lawyer, Anneline van den Heever, said they wanted to abandon their bail application so they could approach the High Court to seek a review of a ruling that their arrests were lawful.On August 15,&nbsp;Magistrate Pieter du Plessis said police lawfully carried out the twins&rsquo; arrest. Du Plessis ruled that the items recovered when they were arrested "certainly indicated interest" in organisations associated with terrorism.He said a third person arrested in connection with the matter, Renaldo Smit, had indicated he would testify for the State. He had given police enough information to execute an arrest. Smit had acknowledged that he and the twins were part of group who wanted to leave South Africa to join terror group, the Islamic State (ISIS).Van den Heever told the court that the State could not keep postponing the matter.&nbsp;"We need to know how long they need, and for what reason they want to postpone all the time," she said.Prosecutor Dawie Joubert said they needed eight weeks for further investigations. When Joubert said this, the twins&rsquo; mother, Wasiela, looked down, burst into tears and held her head in her hands. A family member hugged her.&nbsp;Joubert and Van den Heever, however, agreed on a three-week postponement, to November 4, which did little to console Wasiela, who sobbed uncontrollably.&nbsp; As the twins made their way down the stairs into the holding cells, they smiled, waved, and blew their mother a kiss.Their last bail appearance was on August 25.The twins were arrested during raids in Newclare and Azaadville, on the West Rand, on July 9. They face three counts of contravening the Protection of Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act.According to their charge sheet, the brothers, who were arrested along with siblings Ebrahim and Fatima Patel, were allegedly linked to ISIS and were allegedly planning to set off explosives at a US embassy and "Jewish institutions" in South Africa.Community member Fagrie Samsodien said outside court that the twins wanted to go to Turkey for no other reason than to learn about its traditions. "I hope they can come out and that the law can give them a fair trial. It is their first time that they are in a place like that," Samsodien said.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.