(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Chinese has reportedly become the first person to be fined for selling the Zimbabwean flag without official consent.Harare &ndash; Zimbabwe's environment minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri has reportedly said that the southern African country has become one of the "dirtiest countries in the region".According to New Zimbabwe, Muchinguri-Kashiri said this while addressing a press conference in Harare.Muchinguri-Kashiri said that&nbsp;although the colonial government was cruel to black people, they&nbsp;managed their surroundings well and knowledgeably".&nbsp;She said that the situation across the country was deplorable."Something has gone wrong with us Zimbabweans. Zimbabweans are living dangerously. We cannot live luxuriously like this and forget that we are humans. The white person was cruel, but had vast knowledge on how to live in a community and care for its surroundings," Machinguri-Kashiri ws quoted saying.Follow News24 Africa on Facebook and Twitter.&nbsp;The minister's remarks came as the country's health authorities issued a cholera and typhoid outbreak alert in the capital Harare, which faced water shortages. According to the state owned Herald newspaper, Health Minister David Parirenyatwa said that at least 60 cases of cholera had been confirmed in the city.He further said that health officials were on high alert to prevent a catastrophic outbreak."The impact might not be serious now, but when it rains and there are flash floods, all this dirt will be wasted away into shallow and unprotected water sources . That's when you see an increase in water-borne diseases such as typhoid, cholera and diarrhoea," Parirenyatwa was quoted as saying. The worst cholera outbreak that hit Zimbabwe was seen in 2008. Reports indicated that crumbling infrastructure led to the outbreak of cholera in 2008 which killed over 4 200 people and infected 100 000. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.