 Faith Daniels Five weeks in and fees have not fallen. They haven’t
even stumbled. And if you thought that the protests were getting ugly and out
of hand, you would be wrong. They’ve gotten worse. Much worse. We’re really at
a point of no return. And week to week I’m growing increasingly anxious as I
watch how students approach these protests, as I listen to those who want to
resume lectures and as I consider government’s limp response. Pictures of bleeding students, raids on campus
residences and our young people lining up like criminals – that is our new
normal. Prominent voices have joined the conversation on
social media, condemning the militarized response to protests. Yet very few
have shown their faces on the campuses or have tried to engage either side. No
solutions have been offered either. This week Wits Vice-Chancellor Adam Habib was chased
out of a church. A church that was the venue for peace talks on the Fees Must
Fall protests. A sacred place. The one place where you’d think people would for
a couple of moments have enough respect to listen to the speakers, those who
might come up with a different view, those who might just offer their version
of some sort of accord. There has been no change in what government is telling
students. It’s been made clear that fees can only fall for the poor and the
so-called missing middle but not everyone can be exempted. But what is government’s definition of the rich and
those who can afford to pay? How exactly will this be determined? Because,
quite honestly, if you live in South Africa today with millions to your name
and your child is at university – would you not simply remove him or her? If
you had the means to get your child into an undisturbed learning environment,
wouldn’t you do so? Everyone else is just getting by, I tell you. We need the definitions spelled out – and we must be
honest about whether it really means that the actual group of people who will
have to pay is South Africans who are already indebted. Which really means
those who can’t move their children, those with no alternative, or perhaps
those who have the means and are willing to pay, but believe that the current
cause is just. In a few days from now it will be up to Finance
Minister Pravin Gordhan to share government’s plan on where exactly we are
going with the fees debacle. This is a man who wasn’t even included in the
president’s initial task team of ministers appointed to deal with the protests
crippling our higher education institutions. A man who is fighting his own
political battles after being questionably charged with fraud. Students have consistently shown across the country
that the protests will not subside. The disruptions to lectures will certainly
continue. What we need is decisive leadership. Not a government consistently
repeating its stance and moving us nowhere. We don’t need more talk about how
protests are a sign of a vibrant democracy, while the police move in to spray
campuses with rubber bullets and teargas. We need leaders to acknowledge that
the situation is out of control. So who will take the lead? - Faith Daniels is a seasoned radio and TV journalist, and is currently head of news at Kagiso Media’s Jacaranda FM and East Coast Radio.    