Hlengiwe Nhlabathi and S Thembile CeleGwede Mantashe (Picture: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The ANC Youth League in Johannesburg has written to ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, calling on him to implore the party&rsquo;s national executive committee (NEC) to reverse their disbandment.This comes after the Johannesburg and Eastern Cape structures were disbanded following a decision by the youth league&rsquo;s national executive committee in September.In a letter dated October 7, the disbanded region told Mantashe the main reason for their disbandment was an incident in which youth league president Collen Maine was booed at the Kgalema Lenyatso Rally in February.The region disputes they had anything to do with the booing of Maine, and further states that there was no disciplinary process that would have given it a chance to state its case.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa told City Press the letter to Mantashe had been received and would get &ldquo;consideration in due time&rdquo;.Youth league members have attributed the disbandment of the ANCYL&rsquo;s Eastern Cape provincial executive committee to differences over calls to remove President Jacob Zuma. The Eastern Cape called for Zuma to step down.Insiders said the league was split between two lobby groups. One, led by its president, Maine, wants Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza to be deputy president of the party, and another, led by league treasurer Reggie Nkabinde, favours Water Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane.Youth league spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize told City Press that a deliberate decision not to share the reason for the disbandments had been made by youth league officials. He added that they were not aware of any letters to Mantashe. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t say they are not within their rights to write to Mantashe, but I understand the NEC of the youth league is the highest decision-making body on matters of the youth league,&rdquo; Mkhize said. &ldquo;We are always welcoming any form of advice that the ANC is willing to give, but, outside of policy, I don&rsquo;t see the ANC imposing any form of decision on the youth league.&rdquo;Mkhize also denied allegations that the disbandments were factional in nature and had anything to do with consolidating support for the 2017 party leadership succession race.&ldquo;The NEC is not a lobby group or a faction. If there is an allegation that it is factional, we must and look if the Johannesburg region supported the leadership of the youth league and, if they were, where does this faction now come from?&rdquo;TALK TO USDo you think the reasons for the disbandment of the two structures should be openly stated?SMS us on 35697 using the keyword ANCYL. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.5024.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.