Lizeka Tandwa, News24Mcebo Dlamini (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories University fee protestors have vowed to shut down Johannesburg as student leader Mcebo Dlamini was denied bail. WATCHJohannesburg - Some Wits University students, who are not part of the Fees Must Fall movement, have expressed shock and disappointment that student leader Mcebo Dlamini was denied bail.Speaking shortly after the judgment, three students who News24 spoke to said the judicial system had exposed its flaws on Wednesday.A student, who wished to remain anonymous, said some students were planning to write to Justice Minister Michael Masutha to petition for the release of Dlamini."What is [acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso] Phahlane doing about the third force he has been talking about? Instead of arresting students, police need to find the real perpetrators of violence. How can they allow politics to influence policing? We are pissed off and we can't sit in silence any longer. The justice minister must act."Students who were attending class during Dlamini's bail hearing said they were horrified that Dlamini would remain in prison while convicted murderers such as Paralympian Oscar Pistorius received a slap on the wrist."This just shows the power dynamic in this country and in the law system. It shows that the justice system only serves the wealthy and the white people. Its mind boggling how Pistorius was allowed so many privileges, but a student leader fighting for the rights of ordinary students is denied bail. I'm shocked and disgusted. This is a travesty of justice," another student, who also wished to remain anonymous, told News24.Anusha Naicker, who has been against the shutdown of the university, said she was in class when she read a tweet breaking the news of the Dlamini judgment."I was part of the march that advocated for students to go back to class. I want to finish my degree, but I cannot be complacent to the treatment a fellow student received today. When I and some students in class saw the tweet we were ready to march out of class. It&rsquo;s not fair. It&rsquo;s really a sad day for us as students," she said.Student leader Vuyani Pambo was holding a mass meeting with students and workers at the Soloman Mahlangu House to discuss a way forward following the judgment.Dlamini was denied bail in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court.Earlier, dressed in the same green jacket, blue pants and white keffiyeh around his neck, Dlamini looked at ease as he waited for the bail decision to be delivered.Dlamini was arrested in the early hours of Sunday at his residence at the University of the Witwatersrand.The State previously said Dlamini might flee to Swaziland if he was granted bail.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.