Iavan Pijoos, News24Rhodes Park in Kensington, Johannesburg. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One of the women raped during the Rhodes Park attack last year, on Wednesday testified how her attackers threatened and violated her.The woman, who cannot be named, told the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge that a group of men approached her and another woman as they were walking in the park in Kensington with their partners on the evening of Saturday, October 17 last year."A group of about six or eight men approached us. Then later three more joined. They stood in front of us and blocked the way."She was testifying in the trial of Thabo Nkala, 25, Admore Ndlovu, 23, and Mduduzi Mathibela Lawrence, 32 . They have pleaded not guilty to charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder.&nbsp;They allegedly forced the women&rsquo;s partners to strip and get into the lake, where they drowned. She said one man cocked a firearm and ordered them to lie on their stomachs, facing the dam.The woman said after they took the Nokia cellphone from Zukisa Khela, one of the men who was killed, they also demanded a cellphone from her.&nbsp;"I told them my cellphone is at home and then he asked me, 'What must happen now? What are you going to give us?'," she said."I lifted my left hand and told them &lsquo;here is my wedding ring&rsquo;."'Women are crooks'During the first half-hour of her testimony, she looked upset and often spoke fast. She later explained in minute detail how one man ripped her bra and panties with a knife.&nbsp;"After lifting my skirt and cutting my bra with a knife, he then cut my panty at the lower parts, which covers my vagina. He then inserted two fingers in my vagina very roughly and said, 'You women are crooks. You like hiding cellphones in your private parts'," she said.He inserted two fingers into her anus before poking her buttocks with a knife.&nbsp;"When he poked and rubbed my buttocks, he then said, 'I will have sex with this one'.&rdquo;&nbsp;She heard her husband saying: "Oh my poor wife."&nbsp;After telling the court this, she burst into tears. Judge Papi Masopa adjourned the court briefly.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.