Derrick Spies and Mpho Raborife, News24Chanelle Coutts (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth -&nbsp;Murder accused Christopher Panayiotou was not in love with his mistress, contrary to what she or her best friend might think, the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth heard on Monday."Hy het ges&ecirc; dat hy lief is vir Chanelle [He said he loves Chanelle]," Clarishka Kapp - who is best friends with Panayiotou's mistress Chanelle Coutts, told the court.However Panayiotou's lawyer Terry Price downplayed this statement, saying it did not mean his client was in love with Coutts."You will agree that there is a big difference between verlief and lief, and if I understand you correctly, he said he loves (lief) not in love with (verlief) Chanelle," Price said.Kapp agreed. And when asked how many times Panayiotou had said this, Kapp said she could not recall, but that he had told her over the phone.The court heard that on the morning of Panayiotou's wedding to Jayde, he called Kapp, telling her that he was not sure if he was doing the right thing and did not want to lose Coutts.The court also heard that on the same morning Coutts was upset and sent Panayiotou messages asking him what would happen to their relationship.'Maybe she wanted to marry him'"She was upset. We had a chat on the morning of the wedding and she was very emotional. She also sent him crying face emojis and asked [Panayiotou] 'what about them?'," Kapp said.Price asked Kapp whether she had actually seen the messages being sent herself. Kapp then told the court that Coutts had sent her the messages to show her. Price then asked her whether she had told the police about this because it was not in her statement."I put it to you that Chris never received any messages from Chanelle on his wedding day. Did [Panayiotou] ever tell Chanelle he wanted to marry her?" Price asked.Kapp said he had not.When asked whether Coutts herself wanted to marry Panayiotou Kapp said: "I don't know. Maybe she wanted to marry him. She never told me, but I'm sure she must have wanted to marry him."Earlier, Kapp told the court that Coutts slept over at Panayiotou's house a number of times. She said in one instance Coutts had sent her a picture of herself with Panayiotou in bed. Prior to this, the court heard that Kapp had sent the pair a picture of herself in a bathtub with a glass of wine.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.