Lizeka Tandwa, News24Floyd Shivambu with other EFF members. (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has confirmed what EFF leader Julius Malema claimed about the Gupta family many months ago, EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu said on Sunday.He said Gordhan should be celebrated for "exposing what is really happening with the Gupta family". He was speaking after the party opened a criminal case against the Gupta family and their companies' directors in Rosebank, Johannesburg, on Sunday.A recent affidavit by Gordhan revealed "suspicious" transactions."When the Commander in Chief [Malema] spoke about R6 billion more than four months ago, many people thought we are just speculating. Here is a sworn statement by a minister of finance that is tabled in a court of law confirming indeed what we are saying throughout, that the criminal syndicate that is stealing money is a reality," Shivambu said.Earlier this year Malema alleged that Zuma visited the United Arab Emirates to drop off R6bn belonging to the Guptas."Zuma was in UAE recently in Dubai. That was not an official visit, it was a personal one. Zuma took money to UAE. That is where they are dumping money. The Guptas have taken R6bn to Dubai," Malema told reporters at a media conference at the time following the Constitutional Court judgment.Gordhan &lsquo;consistent in dealing with Guptas&rsquo;Shivambu said Gordhan's revelation was well-timed. He said Gordhan had been consistent in dealing with questions relating to the Guptas."The minister of finance has been very consistent in how he dealt with the question of the Guptas' harassment, that he must make interventions on their relationship with the banks. Even when we asked him a question in parliament, he said he doesn't see anything in legislation that compels him to act on behalf of the Guptas against the banks."When they kept on harassing him he said: 'Let me go to court' for [a] declaratory order that will stop them from harassing him. It's a correct moment. It's the right thing to do," Shivambu said.Gordhan on Friday launched an application in the High Court in Pretoria, the latest development in the ongoing drama around the Gupta family and their alleged abuse of state resources.Gordhan wants the court to declare that, as finance minister, he is in no way obligated to help the Guptas in their battle with South Africa's largest banks, all of whom had terminated their banking relationships with the family and their companies earlier this year.His affidavit contained 72 transactions worth R6.8bn that were listed as "suspicious" by the Financial Intelligence Centre because there had been "no apparent business or lawful purpose" for the transfers. Shivambu called on South Africans to take political action against Zuma and the Guptas.November 2 protestHe said South Africans needed to gather in Pretoria on November 2 to demand Zuma step down."Let us stop the politicisation of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) which is now being desperate and using all legislation to pursue criminal charges against political opponents. All the people of South Africa must come on November 2 to also demand that free education must be given to all."He said money which should be directed towards free education was being stolen by the Guptas."We also call on the banks to co-operate in the investigations. We call on the auditing firms that used to work with the Guptas to co-operate with the investigation of the Gupta syndicate and the financial intelligence centre to fully cooperate," he said.The EFF opened a case against Atul, Ajay and Rajesh Gupta and all their company directors, including the president's son, Duduzane Zuma, whom it described as "Jacob Zuma's proxy in Gupta businesses". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.