Rivalani Myambo, News24 CorrespondentPremier Stanley Mathabatha (Leon Sadiki, City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Malamulele -&nbsp;Limpopo Premier Stanley Mathabatha has warned that infighting in the ANC could destroy the future of the province's newly-merged Collins Chabane Local Municipality.&nbsp; Mathabatha was speaking during a provincial imbizo held at the Mudavula Stadium in Malamulele on Friday, October 14. Malamulele is now part of the new municipality, which was formed on August 3 this year but has yet to be formally constituted. "Our leaders should unite and this will help develop our area and achieve better service delivery to our people, but if they fight there won't be proper services and [it] will affect our communities," he said. The premier applauded the naming of the municipality after the late Collins Chabane, who was killed in a car crash in 2015. At the time of his death Chabane was minister of public service and administration. &nbsp;"I thank everyone assembled here today for naming the municipality after the late minister Collins Chabane, who has contributed immensely to the democracy and development of this country," Mathabatha said.&nbsp; He acknowledged that the province still faced challenges such as unemployment, inequality and poverty. Mathabatha said Limpopo was rich in natural resources and called on investors to help with developing the province."We have lots of mineral resources that can help develop our province and call all business communities to come help us develop our area," said Mathabatha. MEC for co-operative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs Makoma Makhurhupetje assured residents that government would listen to the concerns of those who still opposed the new municipality. However, he insisted that the new municipality would be formally constituted.&nbsp; Treasury has allocated a R411m budget for the new municipality.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.