Jeff Wicks, News24An Indian vendor hangs artificial flowers outside a shop in Amritsar. Flowers and decorative items are in high demand ahead of the Hindu festival of Diwali. (Narinder Nanu, AFP, file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A Durban man has incurred the wrath of the African National Congress in KwaZulu-Natal after an offensive post relating to fireworks over the hindu festival of Diwali on Sunday night. &nbsp;Dawie Kriel took to Facebook to register his distaste about the big bangs and fireworks over the weekend-long festival of light.&ldquo;Same story every year. Despite the outcry about crackers every year and in spite of the ban on the imports, Zuma still gives the Gupta&rsquo;s and company license to import that shit by the container load. Profit profit profit,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;To those idol worshippers and devil disciples who buy them in the name of religion, piss-off back to your dark hole in the backwoods of India you dickhead!! I could strangle you morons with my bare hands and derive great pleasure in watching your face turn blue and your tongue pop out,&rdquo; he posted. &nbsp;Kriel since posted an apology for his rant posted &ldquo;in anger&rdquo;.Penny SparrowREAD: 'I will strive to be a better citizen' - Penny SparrowHe also undertook to promote what he called &ldquo;Divali&rdquo; with bang-free fireworks.In a statement released by the party, they condemned his outburst and said those of his ilk would be punished.&ldquo;Racist outbursts will be severely punished. That was the strong message from the African National Congress in KwaZulu-Natal following a string of social media posts denigrating the Hindu community's celebration of Diwali.&rdquo; &nbsp;&ldquo;Vulgar and offensive language hark back to the crude apartheid past and undermines the hard work in building social cohesion in our country,&rdquo; said ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma.Zuma pointed to the fact that the ANC spearheaded the campaign to identify Scottburgh's Penny Sparrow for her racist comments on Facebook and haul her before the Equality Court.&ldquo;We are determined to make an example of racists who chance their hand and think they will get away with it. Racists are a tiny, badly bred minority who must be isolated in our communities and be forced to bear the consequences of the actions,&rdquo; he said.He added that the ANC was in possession of screenshots of racist postings which will be referred to SAPS, SA Human Rights Commission and Equality Court for investigation and further action. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.