Paul Herman, News24 (iStock)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The ANC in Parliament has welcomed the decision by
Cabinet to withdraw South Africa from the International Criminal Court (ICC). ANC
chief whip Jackson Mthembu said the party has believed for a long time that the
ICC was influenced by non-member states, particularly against the continent of
Africa. "It
is our long held view that the ICC has long diverted from its mandate of being
an independent and objective instrument in bringing an end to heinous crimes
against humanity and the violation of human rights on the African
continent," he said in a statement on Friday. "Instead
the ICC has allowed non-member states to dictate and interfere with its work to
suit their own imperialist agendas." Mthembu
said the ANC remained committed to the protection and promotion of human rights
on the continent and called on the African Union to strengthen its own
institutions to deal with human right's violations. "We
are steadfast in our belief that those who have committed crimes against
humanity must be prosecuted and punished by an impartial body empowered by
international co-operation to defend the universal values of justice." He said
the party is ready to see through the legislative requirements of repealing the
Implementation of the Rome Statute once it is tabled by Cabinet. DA court
challenge The Cape
Chamber of Commerce and Industry meanwhile said it is gravely concerned by the
withdrawal from the ICC. "Our
country should be a role model for accountability of crimes against innocent
people," president Janine Myburgh said on Friday. She
agreed that the majority of cases appearing before the court were African, but
said they were referred to the ICC by the countries themselves. "Are
our leaders focused on protecting themselves at the expense of providing a safe
and secure environment for all [the country's] citizens?" she asked. The
Democratic Alliance says it will approach the courts to have the government's
decision to withdraw from the ICC set aside. Institute
for Security Studies MD Anton du Plessis told News24 earlier the government's
decision should have gone through Parliament for ratification first, and that
the process was not being conducted legally. The
South African Litigation Centre, which first brought the application to force
the government to arrest Sudan President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, who is wanted
by die ICC, in June last year, said it is disappointed by the government's
decision, and will review its legal options on how to proceed with the case. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  