Mahlatse Gallens Jonas Makwakwa (SARS) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has slammed Sars boss Tom Moyane for keeping chief officer for business and individual tax Jonas Makwakwa on the job despite a damning report detailing unusual payments amounting to more than R1m. In an answer to the DA in Parliament Gordhan confirmed that Moyane received the report by the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) on the alleged suspicious and unusual payments relating to Makwakwa on May 18. "It is perturbing that...Mr Moyane allowed Mr Makwakwa to remain in his position dealing with individual and corporate taxpayers," Gordhan said. Gordhan said he only became aware of the report four months later, via the media. "It is my opinion that Mr Moyane failed to inform me of the matter, possibly in an attempt to resolve the issue without the matter becoming public," Gordhan said. The report from FIC showed that there were 75 transactions amounting to R785 130 deposited into Makwakwa's account. Maternity leave Makwakwa's partner Kelly-Ann Elskie deposited a further R450 200 directly into her personal bank accounts. Gordhan has accused Moyane of failing to do his job, saying these matters raise serious concerns about the stewardship of a vital fiscal institution. "Since the report in the newspapers Mr Moyane has publicly criticised the FIC rather than take the responsibility an accounting officer is expected to assume in dealing with such a vital matter," Gordhan said. Makwakwa was suspended after Gordhan demanded answers and met with Moyane following the news reports. Elskie, who is also a Sars employee, is on maternity leave. Sars is said to be seeking legal advice on whether an employer can lawfully suspend and or institute disciplinary proceedings against an employee on maternity leave. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  