System A 24-YEAR-OLD man was arrested last Thursday for allegedly setting alight his lover s home on Saturday, 24 September in the Malende area. The suspect appeared in the Kwa-Dukuza Magistrate s Court and he is due back in court on 10 October for a bail consideration.It is believed that the value of the house and the goods lost in the fire is R500 000. KZN SAPS spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed the suspect was arrested and charged with arson. According to a member of the family whose house was set on fire, Zamanguni Gcabashe, the incident occurred after the suspect, who fathers a child with Gcabashe s sister, had threatened to set the house on fire because he had been angered by the mother of his child. Gcabashe said the suspect came to the family home late at night on the day of the incident and inquired about the whereabouts of the child s mother. She said the suspect then left with his child after he learnt that his lover was not around, but had gone to see him, the suspect, in Groutville. He came back 30 minutes later asking for the child s clothes. I then went to the house where they were kept to fetch the clothes for him, but he followed me until we were inside the house, and that is when he started saying my sister is making a fool out of him and he threatened to burn down the house we were in, Gcabashe said. She said when the suspect damaged the TV that is when she became alarmed and ran off to notify her mother , who was at another house, about the threats the suspect was making. When my mother and I returned we could smell that something was burning, but he [the suspect] told my mother that he had put out the fire he had started out of respect for her [the mother] and he left, Gcabashe said. She said as they were preparing for bed in the other family house nearby the building that was set on fire, family members heard an explosion coming from outside, and she peeped through the window and saw that the other family house was on fire. We tried putting out the flames with buckets of water but the fire was too big and firefighters had to be called, but it was too late, Gcabashe said. She said firefighters could not salvage a thing from the burning building and family members, who had their belongings in the house have nothing left except for the clothes on their back. Fortunately, no one was hurt, but the family is very concerned as we lost many valuable items, which include birth certificates, Gcabashe said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.