(File, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Paris
– The European Commission's top euro official said on Friday there is still a
chance for Britain to engineer an amicable "soft Brexit" departure
from the EU, but stressed it is up to London to decide. Valdis
Dombrovskis was speaking in an interview with AFP a day after EU President
Donald Tusk said the only alternative to a hard Brexit – which would see
Britain pull out of the bloc's single market and impose tough immigration
controls – is "no Brexit". "Well,
from the European Commission point of view we are now emphasising that the ball
now is in UK court. It's for UK government to decide on what model of
cooperation with the EU they would envisage," said Dombrovskis, who
oversees the euro and financial services at the EU's executive arm. "But
staying within the internal market comes with a number of conditions. If UK is
ready to respect those conditions, certainly there's a possibility to discuss
the so-called soft Brexit," he said, speaking in English. "[What]
President Tusk was probably referring to is more or less the statement which
comes from UK government itself, which seems to be indicating rather towards a
so-called hard Brexit." Tusk is
the head of the European Council, which groups the 28 EU leaders. He said in a
speech on Thursday: "I think it is useless to speculate about 'soft
Brexit'. "In
my opinion, the only real alternative to a 'hard Brexit' is 'no Brexit'. Even
if today hardly anyone believes in such a possibility," he said. Different views The pound
has taken a battering as British leaders bicker over how to leave the European
Union, with many fearing a hard Brexit would mean Britain withdrawing entirely
from Europe's single market, and having to negotiate new trade arrangements, in
order to impose strict immigration controls. EU
leaders have said Britain must accept free movement of people if it wants
continued access to the single market and have warned the Brexit negotiations
will be tough. British
Prime Minister Theresa May announced earlier this month her government will
trigger those negotiations by the end of March, putting the country on course
to leave the EU by early 2019. Another
EU commissioner, economics affairs chief Pierre Moscovici, took issue with
Tusk's apparent hard line. "I
don't entirely agree," he said on Thursday evening. "Personally,
I prefer a 'clean Brexit', that is that we continue to have friendly relations
with the United Kingdom, a major power and a very major partner which will no
longer be in the European Union but which will remain a European country." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  