Mahlatse Gallens, News24 Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba (Gianluigi Guercia/AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba said on Tuesday morning that breaking up refuse collection company Pikitup is not an immediate priority. Mashaba was speaking to businesspeople at a breakfast organised by the American Chamber of Commerce in South Africa. During his campaign to be mayor, Mashaba was quoted as saying he planned to split the refuse collection company into seven companies and let the different entities be run by entrepreneurs to end Pikitup's monopoly. He did say, however, that no employee would lose their job. This was at the height of the crippling, prolonged strike by Pikitup workers earlier this year. Mashaba said on Tuesday that for now the plan was to ensure that Pikitup has permanent leadership. Professionalising public service "[The] question of breaking it up... I will look at it at [a] later stage. Right now the focus is to set up a government that ANC won't easily destabilise – they are doing everything possible as I am sitting with you right now. "Some of them are sitting in a meeting somewhere finding ways to make our government ungovernable – it is not secret." Mashaba says he has already been prevented twice this week by ANC members from addressing the Zandspruit community after it had invited him. Mashaba told the business community that his priorities include professionalising the city's public service and rooting out corruption that he described as deep-rooted and part of the past administration's DNA. "You have no idea what I have inherited. I inherited a public service run on the basis of patronage, with the problem at the top. "This is unacceptable. I had to impress on 33 000 employees of our city that their role is to implement and execute policies of any political party elected by [the] electorate," Mashaba said. He says he is employing forensic investigators to unearth corruption and ensure that those who stole money face criminal charges and pay it back. "For me as a South African I am ashamed that in just 22 years, we can turn our country into the corrupt capital of the world. I never thought it is something that could happen under a democratic dispensation," Mashaba said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  