Tammy Petersen, News24The M3 in Cape Town has been partially blocked following an accident. (ER24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Three alleged burglars have died in a crash on the M3 highway near Constantia, resulting in a serious traffic congestion, Western Cape police have confirmed.The accident occurred following a high speed car chase with a private security company and suspects believed to have been involved in a burglary in Diep River, spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Andre Traut confirmed.&ldquo;On the M3 the suspects drove their Toyota Corolla on the wrong side of the road and collided with two oncoming vehicles. Three suspects succumbed on the scene and one was admitted to hospital in a serious condition,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;The occupants of the other two vehicles - a mother and a child in the one vehicle and a [man] in the other - were admitted to hospital with minor injuries.&rdquo;Stolen household goods were found in the suspects&rsquo; vehicle, Traut confirmed. City of Cape Town traffic services spokesperson Maxine Jordaan said the M3 outgoing has been closed at Ladies Mile, while one lane has been closed on the incoming side.Traffic chaos on the M3 in Cape Town. (ER24)ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics arrived at the scene and found an overturned car in the middle of the road, with a second car on the side of the road. Another had come to a stop in the middle of the highway. &ldquo;On inspection of the vehicle of the side of the road, paramedics discovered four men lying trapped. Unfortunately, three men had already succumbed to their multiple, fatal injuries. Nothing could be done for them and they were declared dead on the scene.&rdquo; The fourth man sustained numerous injuries, leaving him in a critical condition, Meiring said. He was freed using jaws-of-life equipment. &ldquo;Three other patients were found on scene, including a 5-year-old boy. All these patients were found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries.&rdquo; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.