iStock Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Kenyan author Ngugi wa Thiong'o was the bookies&rsquo; favourite for the second year to win the Nobel prize in literature. But singer songwriter Bob Dylan won it for creating &ldquo;new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition&rdquo;. But, as Kenyan academic Peter Kimani tells The Conversation Africa&rsquo;s Julius Maina, this doesn&rsquo;t take the sheen off one of Africa&rsquo;s greatest living writers.Who is Ngugi wa Thiong&rsquo;o? Ngugi wa Thiong'o is regarded as one of Africa&rsquo;s greatest living writers. He grew up in what became known as Kenya&rsquo;s White Highlands at the height of British colonialism. Unsurprisingly, his writing examines the legacy of colonialism and the intricate relationships between locals seeking economic and cultural emancipation and the local elites serving as agents of neo-colonisers.The great expectations for the new country, as captured in Ngugi&rsquo;s seminal play, The Black Hermit, anticipated the disillusionment that followed. His fiction, from the foundational trilogy of Weep Not, Child, The River Between and A Grain of Wheat, amplify those expectations, before the optimism gives way in Petals of Blood, and is replaced by disillusionment.What sets Ngugi above and apart from the hundreds of other African writers? African fiction is fairly young. Ngugi stands in the continent&rsquo;s pantheon of writers who started writing when Africa&rsquo;s decolonisation gained momentum. In a certain sense, the writers were involved in constructing new narratives that would define their people. But Ngugi&rsquo;s recognition goes beyond his pioneering role: his writing resonates with many across Kenya and Africa. One could also recognise Ngugi&rsquo;s consistency at churning out high-quality stories about Africa&rsquo;s contemporary society. This he has done in a manner that illustrates his commitment to equality and social justice. He has done much more in scholarship. His treatise, Decolonising the Mind, now a foundational text in post-colonial studies, illustrates his versatility. His ability to spin the yarns while commenting on the politics that goes into literary production of marginal literature is a very rare combination.Finally, one could talk about Ngugi&rsquo;s cultural and political activism. This precipitated his yearlong detention without trial in 1977. He attributes his detention to his rejection of English and embracing his Gikuyu language as his vehicle of expression.Which work or works best illustrate his thinking?It&rsquo;s hard to pick a favourite from Ngugi&rsquo;s over two dozen texts. But there is concurrence among critics that A Grain of Wheat, which was voted among Africa&rsquo;s best 100 novels at the turn of the last century, stands out for its stylistic experimentation and complexity of characters.Others consider the novel as the last signpost before Ngugi&rsquo;s work became overly political. For other critics, it&rsquo;s Wizard of the Crow &ndash; which came out in 2004, after nearly two decades of waiting &ndash; that encapsulates Ngugi&rsquo;s creative finesse. It utilises many literary tropes, including magical realism, and addresses the politics of African development and the shenanigans by the political elite to maintain the status quo.What are Ngugi&rsquo;s lasting contributions to African literature?Without a doubt, Africa would be poorer without the efforts of Ngugi and other pioneering writers to tell the African story. He is also an important figure in post-colonial studies. His constant questioning of the privileging of the English language and culture in Kenya&rsquo;s national discourse saw him lead a movement that led to the scrapping of the Department of English at the University of Nairobi and replaced by the Department of Literature that placed African literature and its diasporas at the centre of scholarship.Ngugi is still active in writing and his latest offering is the third instalment of his memoir, Birth of a Dreamweaver that looks back on his years at Makerere University in Uganda. This is the period when he published his novels, Weep Not, Child and The River Between, while still an undergraduate. Also at this time he wrote the play, The Black Hermit, which was performed as part of Uganda&rsquo;s independence celebrations in 1962. His work has been translated into more than 30 world languages. Ngugi has appeared on the list of favourites to win the Literature Nobel for a number of years. This was yet another year.Yes indeed, Ngugi has been among the bookies&rsquo; favourite for the past couple of years. But since the workings of the Nobel award committee remain secret &mdash;- the list of the committee&rsquo;s deliberations are kept secret for 50 years &mdash;- its choice for this year, the American singer Bob Dylan raises interesting questions about the Nobel committee&rsquo;s interpretation of artistic production as writing. As one unimpressed pundit commented on Twitter, &ldquo;the idea that Dylan is a greater writer (rather than song versifier) than Philip Roth is, frankly, absurd.&rdquo;But author Salman Rushdie, who bookies listed among this year&rsquo;s possible winners, commented:&ldquo;From Orpheus to Faiz, song &amp; poetry have been closely linked. Dylan is the brilliant inheritor of the bardic tradition. Great choice.&rdquo;Peter Kimani, Lecturer, The Aga Khan University Graduate School of Media and Communications (GSMC) This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.