Joice Mujuru. (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Joice Mujuru, Zimbabwe s former vice president has expressed regrets at not doing more to stop human rights abuses by the Zimbabwean government.Harare &ndash; Former Zimbabwean vice president, now leader of the Zimbabwe Peoples First (ZimPF) party, Joice Mujuru, has been accused of hypocrisy after offering to compensate a former white farmer who owned her current farm, Alamein Farm also know as Ruzambo Farm, a report said on Monday.The farm was situated about 72km outside of Harare.&nbsp;According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, businessman Tawanda Nyambirai said that Mujuru was being "insincere" as she was offering to compensate a former white farm owner "ahead of blacks who also suffered under her late husband General Solomon Mujuru". Nyambirai reportedly lost at least three of his farms when he was evicted by the late general Mujuru at the height of the land reforms. He said that he found it "strange" that the former deputy president was now all of a sudden prepared to compensate a former white farm owner while they were many other black farmers who were evicted by her late husband.Modalities for compensation&nbsp;Reports last week indicated that&nbsp;Mujuru had offered to compensate the former owner&nbsp;of her inherited farm, Guy Watson-Smith.Mujuru met with Watson Smith at a London hotel last Thursday where they discussed modalities for compensation.&nbsp;Mujuru apparently inherited the farm from her late husband, who obtained it during the height of the country's land reform programme at the beginning of the century.&nbsp;Reports indicated that Watson-Smith was demanding $1. 47m for infrastructure developments."I am not against the principle of compensation because it is provided in the constitution. What I find strange is that they took farms belonging to blacks like me but find it prudent to compensate a white [former] farmer whom they took land from. To me that is insincere on her part," Nyambirai was quoted as saying. President Robert Mugabe&nbsp;and his Zanu-PF party launched the land reforms in 2000, taking over white-owned farms to resettle landless blacks. Reports said that at least 4000 white farmers were evicted from their farms.Mugabe said the reforms were meant to correct colonial land ownership imbalances.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.