Betha Madhomu, News24 Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; African leaders are set to elect the next African Union Commission chairperson in January next year and the current chair Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma hopes that her successor will implement some of the goals set for agenda 2063.Dlamini Zuma said this in Pretoria where she engaged with South African editors on her blueprint agenda 2063 for the AU."There is agenda 2063. There is the first 10-year plan. The statisians have met and said what the indicators are that would be used to monitor and evaluate. So I think the general priorities are there. Of course some of the priorities have to be achieved earlier than others, including silencing guns."But there is skills revolution and infrastructure and those are going on but they need to be accelerated. So I think it would help the continent if whoever comes [in] continues on what has been agreed upon and the concentration must be on implementation," Dlamini-Zuma said.'lack of stature'African heads of state failed to elect a new head of the AU commission in July after they were unable to agree on a successor to lead the executive branch of the continental body during its 27th summit in Kigali, Rwanda.None of the three candidates at the time was able to muster the two-thirds majority required to win the secret ballot.Ahead of the vote, many states had reportedly expressed dismay at the "lack of stature" among the little known candidates from Botswana, Equatorial-Guinea and Uganda. In the end, 28 of the 54 member states abstained from the final round of voting, thus, forcing a postponement of the election and an extension of Dlamini-Zima&rsquo;s term.Dlamini-Zuma, however, maintained that the developments at the time were not indicative of disunity in the AU."I don&rsquo;t really think that was a sign of disunity or unity but they were looking at the candidates in front of them, and they were deciding on them, and they couldn&rsquo;t agree on one. The procedure is that for a person to be chair of AU, they must get two-thirds of the votes.&nbsp;Listen to Dlamini-Zuma as she speak below&nbsp;"So you must have a general agreement from the continent because you are the chair of the continent. &nbsp;You must have a general agreement from the continent because you are going to be working with all the regions. So two-thirds gives a good idea that you are acceptable on the continent by the majority," Dlamini-Zuma said.&nbsp;She added: "If they don&rsquo;t agree, it doesn&rsquo;t mean they are disunited. It just means they can&rsquo;t see a candidate at that point in time that they can give their two-thirds majority.She said it was exciting that more candidates would join in the battle in the next round."They are going to try again in January. More candidates have joined, so they have six candidates to look at. We hope that this time they may find a candidate that they can give two-thirds to," she said.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.