News24 Correspondent File: AFP Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Elephant poaching is under the spotlight at the 17th CITES Conference of Parties (CoP17) underway in Sandton, Johannesburg.

WATCH Lusaka - There's more to this cute video of elephant calves having a mud wallow than meets the eye. If you look closely you'll see one of the babies doesn't have a tail. That's Kakaro, a plucky little elephant calf who's had a tough time since he was rescued on the Zambia-Mozambique border last month and transported to the Lilayi Elephant Nursery in Lusaka. His tail was already half gone when he was found, frightened and alone by the Luangwa River. Carers says it's likely he was attacked by a crocodile, though they can't be sure. Septicaemia set into what was left of the tail. Vets and carers knew there was only one option: to remove it despite the calf's weakened state. That operation took place last week. It was a long op, says Rachael Murton, who manages the orphanage. But a day later, things were already looking better. "He got to his feet and has had a much deserved milk bottle! The team is very pleased with how well it went," the orphanage posted in a triumphant message. Things have been touch and go for Kakaro since his rescue. Carers have been with him around the clock, willing him to find the strength to carry on. They've reported on his progress frequently, even telling scores of devoted FB followers when his dung was finally solid! Now, with some energy returning, Kakaro is finally able to play with the other orphans at the nursery. The video was taken on Wednesday. It's clear the orphanage - and Kakaro's fans - couldn't be happier at what looks like proof that finally he has turned the corner. Posted one FB friend: "Aaaaaaaaaaw bless his little heart, soul and tail." Video courtesy of GRI-Elephant Orphanage Project 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  