Morgan Tsvangirai. (File, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A well-known Zimbabwean retired Anglican cleric, Reverend Lazarus Muyami reportedly shocked the Gokwe community when he buried his late wife inside the chapel of a school. Cape Town &ndash; Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe risks being removed from power through massive protests if he doesn&rsquo;t retire soon, opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, has reportedly said.The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader said this while addressing his supporters during his party&rsquo;s 17th anniversary celebrations in Bulawayo on Saturday.According to The Standard, Tsvangirai accused the veteran leader of ruining &ldquo;the jewel of Africa&rdquo;, making it difficult for Zimbabweans to lead better lives.Tsvangirai, however, vowed that Zimbabweans were ready to confront Mugabe, 92, head-on despite efforts by his government to crush dissent."This is a regime that survives on violence against innocent people. We want to make sure that this regime faces its end. There are two options to the endgame. The first option is a violent endgame. The second option is a peaceful transition," Tsvangirai was quoted as saying.Mugabe&rsquo;s government has attempted to stamp out a growing wave of on-and now off-line protests that began in April with frustrated social media posts by #ThisFlag pastor Evan Mawarire. He is now in Exile.The southern African country&rsquo;s churches last week issued the nonagenarian with an ultimatum, warning him to "stop terrorising protesters or face impeachment".Reports on Saturday indicated that the church leaders had since urged parliament to initiate a process to impeach Mugabe, alleging that he had failed to fulfill his "constitutional mandate".In a strong worded letter written to parliament the defiant church leaders claimed that the national assembly and the Senate had sufficient reasons to get rid of the nonagenarian as he &nbsp;had failed to uphold the constitution. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.