Kaveel Singh, News24Siya Kolisi (Gallo) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Western Province loose forwards Siya Kolisi and Sikhumbuzo visited pupils at Steenberg High School on Monday, as part of the Currie Cup's school scholarship programme. Watch. WATCHJohannesburg - Rachel Kolisi, the wife of Springbok flank Siya, says she feels sorry for racist trolls who are constantly berating them over their interracial marriage.Kolisi was speaking to News24 after she shared a post on Twitter earlier on Friday, showing the racist Facebook messages she had received."When I see stuff like that, I feel so sorry for them. If that is what ruins your day when you wake up, out of all the things going on in the world, I feel bad for you," Kolisi said on Friday.In the messages, a black man swears at Kolisi, questioning why she would marry a black man."Why do white hoes think they can fuck niggers! Fuck your own kind. Leave [Africa] and go back to [Europe] and leave our good men to our own beautiful black women."He goes on to say that he is "sick of seeing this half breed popping out", before making sexual references and telling her to "go home white hoe [sic]"."Don't need you here stealing our men."Kolisi said she had not checked her Facebook inbox since she married her husband in August. She said that every so often, she received messages from strangers, asking why she was in an interracial marriage."It has become monotonous. It is the same thing. They just don&rsquo;t have anything different to say. And it is not just one race - people from all race groups also say negative things."'I love my husband and I won&rsquo;t be hiding it'Kolisi said she put the post up on social media to expose it."I wanted to instil a bit of fear and have them think twice about saying stuff like that. We are obviously not the only ones who experience this. There is just a lot of public focus on our relationship."She said she had also often received messages from people, who were seemingly in interracial relationships, asking for advice."It&rsquo;s pretty sad. [Trolls] like this make others fear just loving someone. It goes for gay and lesbian people as well. Not just interracial couples. They are not helping us move forward."Kolisi encouraged people who were afraid to engage in interracial relationships."If you love someone and want to be with them, you need to be proud of it. Personally, I don&rsquo;t care about what other people think. I love my husband and I won&rsquo;t be hiding it."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.