Social worker Marion Thomas will hold weekly clinics to help street people and residents with social issues. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Weekly support clinics for street people are now being provided in the Muizenberg and Kalk Bay improvement districts.The Muizenberg Improvement District (MID) has contracted a dedicated team a social worker and two field workers to improve its help to homeless people in the area. These workers will also look to build stronger referral networks for street people, child-strollers and the long-term homeless, says MID manager Chevone Petersen. The role of the social service team is to engage and record the needs of street people to assist them with access to the necessary services, Petersen explains. In this way the MID can offer strategic support and implementation of a workable protocol for social development which is one of four mandated top-up services an improvement district should provide. Work collaborativelyWith a dedicated, professional social support team, the MID is now better placed to cooperate with the neighbouring Kalk Bay St James special ratings area, Petersen says, as social worker Marion Thomas is contracted to both improvement districts ( Homeless to get a voice , People s Post, 20 September). Additionally, the MID will be able to work more collaboratively with the City of Cape Town and provincial government departments and hold them to account for their service delivery in the Far South, Petersen says. Thomas offers weekly social support clinics in both improvement district areas, with the Muizenberg clinic running on a Tuesday from 09:00 to 13:00. It is a safe, private space within the clinic building in Atlantic Road. Those who want assistance to get off the street can come for counselling and practical help with any social issues. Marion also provides assistance with enquiries about how to access social services like applications for social grants and IDs, referrals to shelters and opportunities for employment, Petersen says.Any social issueWhile the focus is on helping street people, all residents can make use of the clinic services for any social issue such as child protection, elderly care or substance abuse. No appointment is necessary as the clinic runs on a first come, first served basis. The MID promotes responsible giving and understands that there are many residents who want to do something tangible to assist. There are a range of ways you can be involved. For example, you can sponsor a person who needs an ID from home affairs or help transfer clients to shelters. Please contact Thomas if you want to help in ways like these, adds Petersen. V Contact Marion Thomas via SMS on 076 236 4326 or email socialwork@mid.org.za. For more information visit www.mid.org.za. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.