Thulani Gqirana, News24 Shaun Abrahams. (File photo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Shuan Abrahams says he acted in the public interest by charging Pravin Gordhan.WATCH Cape Town - The Democratic Alliance on Friday called for a debate on the "growing politicisation" of the National Prosecuting Authority. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said he had submitted a request to National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to schedule an urgent debate on the matter. "The DA is deeply concerned by an emerging trend of selective prosecution by the NPA, while other matters, particularly those linked to the President and his friends, are delayed at every opportunity," Steenhuisen said in a statement. Any person who violated the law had to answer for their crime before a court, without fear or favour. "For this principle to be given effect to, an independent prosecuting authority must exist so that all cases are pursued on their merits, and not on the basis of the individual in question." EFF charges READ: NGOs want Gordhan charges scrapped The party questioned the timing of the charges against Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, calling it suspicious and alarming. "This is especially the case when one considers that the NPA has used every trick in the book to avoid prosecuting President Zuma for the 783 charges of corruption, racketeering, and money laundering." Malema on Thursday received a summons relating to an incident at the University of the Free State in 2014. He was informed that he was being charged for contravening the apartheid-era Riotous Assemblies Act. During the party’s elective conference on December 16 that year at the University of the Free State, Malema allegedly incited party members to occupy any vacant land they came across. According to a second summons, he was being charged for making the same call in Newcastle, KwaZulu-Natal. It was time for Parliament to exercise its oversight role, Steenhuisen said on Friday, and debate the "threat to Constitutional democracy". "As public representatives, we cannot sit back and allow Jacob Zuma and his friends to capture yet another important institution of state that should be used to protect all South Africans, and not for the pursuance of political vendettas." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  