Derrick Spies and Jenna Etheridge, News24 Marius Stander chats to Panayiotou’s attorney Alwyn Griebenow. (Derrick Spies, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Port Elizabeth - Murder-accused Christopher
Panayiotou loved his mistress, bought her expensive gifts and had her over at
his marital home a few times, the Port Elizabeth High Court heard on Thursday. Clarishka Kapp, a friend of “mistress”
Chanelle Coutts, said Panayiotou had told her he was worried about losing her
when he married his wife Jayde. She was testifying for the State, and being
questioned by prosecutor Marius Stander. Panayiotou told her he loved Coutts, his store
manager at the OK Grocer in Algoa Park, Kapp said. Panayiotou, Sinethemba Nenembe, and Zolani
Sibeko are on trial on charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing, and killing
Jayde, a schoolteacher, on April 21 last year. They pleaded not guilty. She was kidnapped while waiting for her lift
outside her Stellen Glen complex, in Deacon Road, in Kabega Park, Port
Elizabeth. Kapp lived in Algoa Park and worked at Don
Marco, an upmarket boutique clothing store, in Walmer Park. She and Coutts had
been friends since Grade 3. “Chanelle introduced us. He was her boss at
the OK Grocer. And that is how we came to be friends.” Expensive gifts At first the relationship between Coutts and
Panayiotou was professional, but this dynamic changed. “They were very friendly with each other, more
so than what a manager and an employee should be.” Kapp said they bought gifts for each other. “All
the gifts he bought for her were expensive.” She mentioned Polo handbags valued at least R1
000, a watch worth around R2 000, and a GHD hair straightener worth around R2
000. Hotels, sleepovers Stander asked her to recall Coutts’ reaction
the day Panayiotou asked Jayde to be his wife. Kapp said she did not seem
upset. She was upset when they got married shortly after that. Kapp believed
this was because they were in a relationship. “We did talk about it on the wedding day and
she was very upset.” She also spoke to Panayiotou. “It went over the fact that he didn’t know if
he made the right decision, because he was scared he would lose Chanelle. He
made a joke that I must come and kidnap him”. Panayiotou stared at the floor as she spoke. Kapp said the friendship between the three of
them continued as normal after the marriage. She had drinks with Coutts at
Panayiotou’s marital home while Jayde was at her mother’s place. Jayde was out two other times. Kapp brought
over takeaways for the trio one time. On another occasion Panayiotou invited
them over for a braai. “Do you know if Chanelle ever slept over at
his house?” asked Stander. She replied “yes” and murmurs were heard in
the public gallery. “Every time she slept over at him, she would
tell her mom she was sleeping over at my place.” Kapp did not know where Jayde was during these
sleepovers. The three spent two nights in George for
Coutts’ birthday in September 2014. She slept downstairs while the couple slept
in the upper room, she said. The two apparently also stayed at a hotel in
Summerstrand. Panayiotou apparently got jealous when he saw
Coutts chatting to someone else on Facebook. The three spent time together at Infinity Cocktail
Bar, which Panayiotou owned, and which was near the OK Grocer. When Coutts’ sister Cindy got married, she
took Panayiotou along as her date. More murmurs came from the gallery. Panayiotou looked up briefly and then stared
back down. Tertia Macomo, a police officer at Kabega Park
police station, earlier testified that Panayiotou said in an affidavit that he
got home the night before the murder and found Jayde awake in bed with their
dogs. He went to work on his laptop and went to bed
at midnight. He was still asleep when she got up for work the next morning. Marilyn Woods, principal of Riebeek College Girls' High School in Uitenhage, testified that Jayde was an extremely dedicated teacher. “She always threw herself into her work with a
smile on her face.” The trial continues.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  