Boipelo.MereTHE students who underwent basic computer training from Loxion-Tech Communications. Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE first 20 students who received computer training at the Loxion-Tech Communications company successfully completed their course and were awarded attendance certificates.Loxion-Tech Communications is a Galeshewe-based information and communications technology (ICT) business that provides information and communication technology solutions such as internet, typing, faxing and copying to the community.Other services they offer include marketing and branding services, graphic design and business management.The company saw the importance of incorporating a training and development academy to their services because of the identified need for computer literacy within the community. A fully equipped training centre was set up at the premises in Hulana Street.The first basic computer literacy training course was held from 22 August to 15 September as part of the company s Corporate Social Investment Project, but also as part of celebrating five years in business.The course was facilitated by Mihau Seboko and coordinated by Percy Moholo, who is the co-director of the company.According to Mohau Setloboko from Loxion-Tech Communications, this initiative shows gratitude to the community for showing support towards their business. The purpose of this initiative was to empower and provide the youth, in particular those that are unemployed, as well as the community at large, with the basic computer skills they need so as to enable them to use computers and interact with confidence in the ICT world. They received certificates of attendance after completing the course. Setloboko added that their first intake consisted of two groups who attended morning and afternoon classes respectively.The graduation ceremony on Thursday, 29 September, was a success thanks to sponsors like Papase Funerals, Oasis Barkly Road and Kimberley Cremations. As a business, we realise the value and importance this training course has had on particularly the unemployed youth. Our wish is to make it an ongoing thing, but our challenge as a business is also to remain sustainable. We would therefore appreciate any kind of partnership from government or the private sector in order to continue that course, Setloboko said.One of the students, Kagiso Sebetloane, said he did not have any knowledge about computer usage.He feels blessed to have been approached by the company for this free training course, as it equipped him now. I could only operate my emails and documentation from my cellphone and therefore was a regular client at Loxion-Tech. They know me very well, because I would ask them to assist in printing documents, opening my emails and more. They were very patient and practically did everything for me. Now I can do all the basics and manage my own filing, he said.Sebetloane added that he now proudly carries around a memory stick, just like a true businessman, thanks to the course.What he really wants is for a partnership with this company that empowered him, so that more people in his position can have a better life. All 20 students had email addresses when we finished the course and we could manage them, he concluded.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.