Derrick Spies and Jenna Etheridge, News24State prosecutor in the Panayiotou case, Marius Stander. (News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - Babalwa Breakfast&rsquo;s conflicting testimony about alleged preparations for a hit on Jayde Panayioutou could only mean she was lying, the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth heard on Thursday.Prosecutor Marius Stander had called Breakfast as a State witness the previous day.On Thursday morning, the court granted his request to declare her a hostile witness.On Wednesday, she denied the information contained in two statements she made to police in April 2015.She made one statement on April 27 2015, at the Uitenhage police station, and another during the early hours of the following morning, at the Kabega Park police station.Hostile witnessREAD: Disappointing Breakfast for State in Panayiotou trialIn them, Breakfast said Christopher Panayiotou had approached her boyfriend and self-confessed middleman, Luthando Siyoni, and asked him to kill his wife Jayde. Siyoni has turned State witness.On Wednesday afternoon, Breakfast vehemently denied saying any of that. She denied saying Panayiotou would pay R50 000 for the hit.The effect of being declared a hostile witness was that Stander could cross-examine Breakfast as if she was a defence witness.Stander asked her if she remembered who took her statement at the Kabega Park police station.She said she did not get a good look at the man. She confirmed the officer was not present when police fetched her at her house, nor at the Uitenhage police station.&ldquo;So how did he get the information?&rdquo; Stander asked. Breakfast she did not know because the officer was the one writing.&ldquo;So you are saying he made all the information up?&rdquo; She said she did not know.&ldquo;Are you saying that you never said what he wrote down?&rdquo;She replied: &ldquo;He asked me and I told him about Thando [Siyoni] fetching me and the bag and all that&rdquo;.&lsquo;Lying to court&rsquo;In the Kabega Park statement, she said she was asked to count out R50 000 which was in Siyoni&rsquo;s gym bag. Breakfast said on Thursday she had no knowledge of the money in the bag.She said she had no idea how police would have found out about the money when only her and Siyoni knew about the cash in the bag. Stander said the only way they could have known was because she told them.&ldquo;If I was the one who gave them this information, how come I can&rsquo;t recall it?&rdquo; she retorted.He argued again that police could only have known about other information in her statements because she told them. These details included Sizwe&rsquo;s car being at her house and his car being white.Breakfast said she was never given an opportunity to read her statement and that it was never read back to her.&ldquo;I am going to argue at the end of the day that you are lying to the court,&rdquo; Stander said. She did not to comment.Panayiotou, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko are on trial on charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing, and killing Jayde on Tuesday, April 21 2015. They pleaded not guilty. The alleged hitman, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, died in September.Jayde, 29, was abducted outside her townhouse complex in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, while waiting for her lift to Riebeeck Park High School. She was found shot dead in a veld outside KwaNobuhle township, Uitenhage, on April 22.The trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.