Amanda Khoza, News24 Senzo Meyiwa (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – The father of slain Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa says he will never stop looking for his son's killers. Sam Meyiwa told News24 he had consulted sangomas and prophets hoping to get answers to the mystery of what happened to his son that fateful day two years ago. "I am busy going to different sangomas and prophets looking for answers. I am doing this because I am hurt. "I often lay awake at night thinking about him, I look at him, his soccer kit and tears well up in my eyes. I don't care what people say, I will not stop looking for his killers," said Sam. Wednesday marked two years since Senzo was shot and killed. He was shot at his then girlfriend Kelly Khumalo's house in Vosloorus on October 26, 2014. He was apparently shot during a scuffle that broke out in the house. Sam said he would never forget the day he received the news of Senzo's death. "I remember it as though it happened yesterday." Disappointed by police He said it was a Sunday and Senzo had played in a game against Ajax Cape Town the night before. "We never used to watch his live games because it was too nerve-wracking, we always watched the repeats the next day. "We were watching the game and I kept seeing shadows outside but no one came inside the house. The door opened and then it closed again. "Then my neighbour came inside and held my wife tightly and said, 'I am so sorry, Senzo has died'." Meyiwa said following Senzo's death he had been disappointed by how the police had handled the case. "The case has been handled by so many people to the extent that I went to complain about it to Public Protector Thuli Madonsela." He said his hopes were raised when he was informed that everyone that was present at the house on that night had been called and told to recount what had happened. "After that there was a long silence. In June a group of policemen came and told us that they were from the Hawks and that an arrest was imminent, we never heard from them ever again until two weeks ago when they called and they said they had an update but they didn't." Meyiwa said while he was frustrated by the police, he would not give up on his son. 'No one will get arrested' "He visits me in my dreams, he tells me who killed him. He says he can see that we are getting impatient and that we should be patient because the truth will come out. Senzo's death has something to do with a prominent South African," claimed Meyiwa. He thanked Senzo's fans and South Africans for supporting the family. Senzo's older brother Sifiso, 35, said he hoped the truth would come out one day. "We are worried because this case was bungled from the beginning. The police only took statements from the people who were in the house, two days later. That is too long. Someone who was in the house that day knows exactly what happened and who wanted him dead." Sifiso said he did not believe that Senzo's then lover, songstress Khumalo, had anything to do with Senzo's death. "I honestly don't think she knows who did it, I also don't think she was involved in the murder in anyway. Prominent people are involved, no one will get arrested, I am certain of that." Sifiso would not say who he thought killed his brother, whom he said he missed. "He was an optimistic person, he never gave up and always looked on the brighter side of life. We used to share Bible verses and go to church together when he was down in KZN," said Sifiso. Senzo would have been 29 years old this year. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  