Lizeka Tandwa, News24Mcebo Dlamini (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The case against #FeesMustFall leader and former Wits SRC president Mcebo Dlamini was postponed in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Monday.Prosecutor Steven Rubin said the case needed to be postponed to Tuesday so that Dlamini's address can be verified.The court heard that Dlamini had provided police with his Wits University residence address. Rubin said this address could not be accepted because the institution would be closing in a matter of weeks. Dlamini's lawyer Mongezi Ntanga said he had provided his mother's address. This address would be verified by police, Rubin told the court. Dlamini would remain in custody at the Cleveland police station. He faces charges of public violence, theft, malicious damage to property and assault.Dlamini seemed calm while standing at the dock on Monday morning. He was dressed in a green hoodie with a black and white keffiyeh around his neck. He occasionally looked back into the public gallery, in search of familiar faces.&amp;lt;br _moz_dirty="" /&amp;gt;Ntanga told the court that Dlamini had to be released because he was writing an exam on Tuesday. Magistrate B Roux refused his request after Rubin said Dlamini had not attended most of his classes.Roux then asked if Dlamini had experienced any problems while in custody. He was told by Dlamini's lawyer that he could not remain in police cells because he has asthma.Roux said Dlamini needed to consult with his lawyers to receive medication. Outside the courtroom, at least 50 students remained outside awaiting Dlamini's release. They left soon after Dlamini was taken back to the court's holding cells. Dlamini was arrested in the early hours of Sunday morning at his residence at Wits University.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.