Jenni Evans (Picture supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Nine people were arrested during looting and arson in Braamfontein early on Saturday morning, Johannesburg's Metro Police said. Senior Superintendent Wayne Minnaar said they looted a supermarket at the corner of De Korte Street and Biccard Street in Braamfontein before midnight. They also torched a vehicle which belongs to the SABC, a Mercedes Vito and a tow truck which was parked on the side of the road. 
He said the arrests came while a group of students were protesting but did not know if those arrested are students. Roads were blocked until after 01:00 while police moved through the area, stun grenades booming.
The roads were opened again later.
None of the officers were injured during the skirmishes. Clean up operations are underway and motorists can drive through there now. On Friday nationwide protests in demand of free and decolonised education took a sinister turn when University of Cape Town Vice Chancellor Max Price was allegedly punched twice in the course of a conversation with students on the campus. Police fired stun grenades and students left but later disrupted a soccer match on campus.
Wits University issued a notice of a curfew on campus between 22:00 and 06:00, which was met with outrage by some students who started #HabibsApartheid on Twitter to complain about it. Hours later, several fires were started and police chased after the groups of people they thought were responsible.
Police released teargas to disperse them but some ran into a women's residence. Police have escalated all inquiries for information and verification to a national media desk. Brigadier Sally de Beer said officers managed to stop a group of people trying to set four gas canisters alight. Meanwhile, students are distancing themselves from the violence, saying it was not them because they were behind closed doors because of the curfew. Patrons at the famous Orbit jazz club were caught up in the protest during a show by jazz doyenne Sibongile Khumalo. eNCA journalist Jody Jacobs captured a video of Khumalo praying for peace during her performance.
Khumalo has been awarded the National Order of Ikhamanga in silver for her work, 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  