Kailene Pillay, The WitnessCarter High School's learner affairs officer, Johan de Goede said the school placed a high emphasis on the safety of pupils and was concerned about the two incidents of assault. (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Carter High School said on Monday that a recent incident of assault involving a scissor attack on a pupil near the school, was an isolated incident.The school&rsquo;s learner affairs officer Johan de Goede said a Grade 12 pupil and a Grade 11 pupil were involved in an altercation and one had been &ldquo;injured&rdquo; with a pair of scissors. De Goede said the incident happened outside the school premises. &ldquo;Although the incident happened outside the school premises and well outside our area of responsibility, we still found it adequate to mediate the matter between the learners and their parents respectively,&rdquo; he said. He added that the matter was in fact a case of mistaken identity. De Goede said the parents of one of the pupils wanted to lay criminal charges, &ldquo;but after a meeting with all parties, the parents conceded not to proceed with the matter&rdquo;.Police spokesperson Sergeant Mtokozisi Ngobese said police were called to the school but &ldquo;no case was opened&rdquo; since both parties had parted amicably.The school issued a statement on Monday after queries from The Witness. In another incident of assault earlier this year at Carter, a Grade 8 pupil asked his older brother, who is not a pupil at the school, to &ldquo;assist him in getting personal belongings back from a Grade 11 learner who took such items from him&rdquo;.De Goede said the school dealt with the matter in a serious light and laid criminal charges against the brother. &ldquo;We understand that the matter will be in court soon. Both learners were disciplined in respect of their involvement in the matter.&rdquo;De Goede said the school placed a high emphasis on the safety of pupils and was concerned about the two incidents of assault.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.