Lizeka Tandwa, News24Busisiwe Mkhwebane (Jaco Marais, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; A large number of people support incoming Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, according to a poll conducted by Corruption Watch.Out of 8 000 people who took part in a vote conducted by SMS, 87% said they had confidence in her, the corruption watchdog said in a statement on Thursday.&ldquo;We are extremely encouraged by the massive public interest in the appointment of the new public protector. This level of public scrutiny bodes well for the future of this critically important institution that is precisely charged with guarding and advancing the interests of the public,&rdquo; executive director David Lewis said.&nbsp;Corruption Watch congratulated Mkhwebane on her appointment, which the Presidency announced on Thursday.ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu saluted outgoing Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, for the &ldquo;sterling&rdquo; and &ldquo;laudable&rdquo; work she had done since her appointment in 2009."She has undoubtedly infused renewed energy into this critical Chapter 9 institution, ensuring that acts of malfeasance, corruption and other unethical conduct are exposed and dealt with. The institutions of government are today stronger because of her unwavering determination," he said.Mkhwebane was selected from more than 60 candidates nominated by South Africans. They included judges Siraj Desai and Sharise Weiner, Prof Bongani Majola, and advocate Muvhango Lukhaimane.Accused of being a spyHer candidacy was endorsed by an overwhelming 263 votes during a debate in the National Assembly on September 7. A total of 79 MPs voted against her, while 1 MP abstained.Only the Democratic Alliance opposed her nomination. The party accused her of being a spy on the State Security Agency's payroll.Meanwhile, President Jacob Zuma was on Thursday expected to meet Madonsela to answer her questions about the Gupta family&rsquo;s alleged influence on Cabinet decisions. This was part of her probe into the alleged &ldquo;capture&rdquo; of state institutions by business interests, including the Gupta family&rsquo;s.Madonsela started her probe in March, after the Catholic Dominican Order asked her to investigate. She would try to conclude her preliminary report before leaving office on October 14. She had said she was in a race against time.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.