Nosipho.MkhizePhoto: nosipho mkhize KZN Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo (middle) and St Mary s staff. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health has recently announced that it will be taking over St Mary s Missionary Hospital. KZN MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dlhlomo said: As always we appreciate the Missionary Sisters for their pioneering role since 1927 in establishing schools and hospitals to serve communities in the areas where the Missionary Sisters carried out their work.In 1995, the Missionary Sisters could no longer run the hospital given the ever-escalating costs thereof. In an effort to continue to serve the people, the business of the hospital and all its assets were sold and transferred to an independent trust, the St Mary s Catholic Mission Hospital Trust, that took over the ownership and operation thereof and has since looked after the affairs of the hospital, with the Sisters continuing to own the land. Unfortunately, the costs of the hospital kept escalating and this led to the hospital Trust being finally sequestrated and wound up by the High Court. The business of the hospital is under the direct control of the trustees for the time being of the insolvent estate St Mary s Catholic Mission Hospital Trust, that is operating the hospital pursuant to the provisions of the law relating to insolvent estates. Today we announce that the trustees of insolvent estate St Mary s Catholic Mission Hospital Trust, together with the Missionary Sisters and the KwaZulu-Natal government, led by the Department of Health, have agreed to begin negotiations on the planned disposal of the institution upon terms and conditions to be agreed.St Mary s Hospital is a 200-bed, level one district hospital serving a population of about three million and acts as a referral hospital for 15 provincial and municipal primary healthcare clinics as well as two community health centres. St Mary s is the only district hospital in the area and services the following catchment areas - Cato Ridge, Inchanga, Mpumalanga, Hammersdale, Shongweni Dam, KwaNgcolosi, Waterfall, Molweni, Gillits, Hillcrest, Stockville, Kloof, Mpola, Tshelimnyama, Mariannhill, Pinetown, Ashley, Wyebank, Clermont and New Germany.Following financial difficulties encountered in the running of this historic institution that was established in 1927, which resulted in the sequestration of the hospital trust by one of the major creditors of the hospital. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.