Mpho Raborife, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Members of the ANCWL gathered in Soweto to celebrate struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and to swear in new members.WATCHJohannesburg -&nbsp;Struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela&rsquo;s nephew has been emotional since his arrest on a charge of theft and wants to be released from jail, his brother said on Thursday. Nkululeko Madikizela told News24 outside the Orlando Magistrate&rsquo;s Court that he was worried about his brother, Zolile, 30, and wanted to help him at least get bail.The 36-year-old said he had heard his brother was arrested last week. He&nbsp;had been&nbsp;working in Zambia at the time."I heard about his arrest and came to see him as soon as I could. He didn&rsquo;t say anything, he was just crying. He says he wants to get out of there," Nkululeko said.On Thursday morning, Zolile - who had reportedly worked as Madikizela-Mandela's gardener - appeared in court on a charge of housebreaking and theft. Dressed in maroon trousers and a multi-coloured hoodie, Zolile sat next to five other men in the dock. All had been fetched from the Orlando East police station and were cuffed together in a row.A nervous-looking Nkululeko tried to speak to his brother during an adjournment, but a court orderly warned him to step away. He sheepishly walked back to the back of the courtroom, stroking his head.Magistrate Anton le Roux then entered and heard Zolile&rsquo;s case. The matter was postponed to October 19 for the defence to get copies of the docket and for a possible plea.Until then, Nkululeko had hoped he could find a way to get his brother released on bail. He would visit Madikizela-Mandela afterwards.Theft and housebreaking&nbsp;Madikizela was arrested last week after Colin Mtileni, who works at the Madikizela-Mandela household in Orlando, Soweto, opened a case against him.He was charged with theft and housebreaking after allegedly breaking into the stalwart&rsquo;s home in April and stealing a plasma TV and designer bags worth between R80 000 and R100 000.Previously, the Hawks confirmed to Eyewitness News that Zolile&rsquo;s charges were not linked to the R83 000 birthday money that went missing from Madikizela-Mandela&rsquo;s home shortly after her birthday.She discovered the cash was missing when she took her bag out of her wardrobe to get bread money.Nkululeko said things had become slightly awkward within the family since his brother&rsquo;s arrest. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.