Tammy Petersen, News24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; While Professor Tim Noakes is a co-author of The Real Meal Revolution, he is not responsible for content published on its official website, he told the HPCSA on Tuesday. He conceded during cross-examination at his conduct hearing by the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA), that he did not agree that infants and toddlers should not consume a low carbohydrate, high fat (LCHF) diet, or that prior medical advice should be sought.Noakes on Tuesday testified that the Real Meal Revolution website is an independent company, which donates 5% of its monthly income to the Noakes Foundation.&ldquo;I have no control over what they say. I am not accountable for that information,&rdquo; he said.When advocate Ajay Bhoopchand, for the HPCSA, pointed out that the website was the official page of the book he had co-authored, Noakes said new content was regularly uploaded to the website. It advertised all his upcoming talks and lectures.&ldquo;It would be ludicrous for me to spend days looking through all their material. There is no contract that says I must check all they write,&rdquo; he said.Noakes was called before the council after the former president of the Association for Dietetics in South Africa, Claire Julsing-Strydom, lodged a complaint against him.It was prompted by a tweet Noakes sent to a Pippa Leenstra after she asked him for advice on feeding babies and on breastfeeding.Her tweet read: "@ProfTimNoakes @SalCreed is LCHF eating ok for breastfeeding mums? Worried about all the dairy + cauliflower = wind for babies?? [sic]"Noakes advised her to wean her child onto LCHF foods, which he described as "real" foods.His tweet read: "Baby doesn't eat the dairy and cauliflower. Just very healthy high fat breast milk. Key is to ween [sic] baby onto LCHF."Noakes argued at the hearing that his advice was anything but unconventional. He quoted research from as far back as the 1800s before the boom in obesity rates.Did not knowHe conceded he did not know the answer to Leenstra&rsquo;s question if dairy and cauliflower caused wind in babies. He said he was sharing his opinion in response.He said he had been encouraging her to wean the child onto real, LCHF food, and not grain.&ldquo;The diet is completely compatible with the South African dietary guidelines,&rdquo; Noakes said.He argued that while he was not a specialist in paediatrics, neonatology, or dietetics, he was an expert in nutrition.He said he never discouraged her from breastfeeding. In his book he encourages mothers to breastfeed their children until the age of two, he said.The hearing continues on Wednesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.