Vusi.MthalaneOUR students, who were supporters of the revolutionary ANC, who they voted into power, are carbon copies of their leaders using violent means to achieve their aims. Why are there always annual student uprisings every October? This is a ploy to avoid writing exams. When they have completely destroyed the educational facilities, the students will appeal to Europe and America for the constant hand-outs. Africa is the international begging bowl .An ANC spokesman indicated that the country will lack professionals if the exams are cancelled. How can this rabble acquire skills to administer a country? I posed a question to a child: Supposing you want a favour from your parents, how would you obtain it? Is it by screaming and destroying your home, or by speaking civilly and not behaving like a savage? Condemning criticisms have been levelled against the police. Why should police members be bombarded with stones and petrol-bombed and yet be expected neither to protect themselves and public property, nor to retaliate? I appeal to critics, ensconced in a comfortable armchair, in the sanctuary of their super secure home, to visit an educational facility. Attempt a civilised dialogue, while confronted by an attacking, barbaric-like, screaming, hysterical, chanting horde, brandishing weapons. Try to practise empathy. There is the analogy of the Marikana mine incident, where security guards were brutally hacked to death prior to the armed protest. The result was closure of parts of the mine, retrenchment and unemployment, but the union bosses still received their astronomical salaries. Our mines provided wealth for the economy, which has been almost demoted to junk status.Apparently, the Constitution does not acknowledge the imposition of martial law. How can an individual, possessing only one iota of intelligence, resort to the wanton destruction of our educational facilities? In no other country have students embarked on the rampage to destroy educational structures. Thus it is evident that these students, who are unable to study, prefer to abolish education.Dr L.J. Peltz24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.