Amanda Khoza, News24Gogo Sikhokhile Khoza, 70, and her six grandchildren have been left destitute after a fire guttered their home last week (Supplied). Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - A News24 user, touched by the plight of an elderly Mzingazi woman who lost everything when her house was gutted by a fire, has donated R10 000 to help her and her grandchildren. Gareth Hooker, general manager of Griffin Holdings in Johannesburg, said his CEO in London saw the story and suggested something be done for the family. "We often assist and offer support to people in need and different charities. We were really touched by the gogo&rsquo;s plight. Having to look after six grandchildren at the age of 70 can&rsquo;t be easy," he said.READ:&nbsp;Bleak Christmas for KZN family after house burns downThe house belonging to Sikhokhile Khoza, 70, and her six grandchildren burnt down after a suspected electrical fault on Monday, October 17.Khoza&rsquo;s granddaughter, Mpilo Gumede, 27, was left with nothing but the clothes she was wearing that day. Locals had been trying to help the family, who live just outside Richards Bay in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Hooker said the company would give the family the money in the form of credit at stores at the company&rsquo;s Boulevard mall in Richards Bay. "We don&rsquo;t want to dictate to them how they should spend the money, but we will ask them to tell us what they need and we will open accounts for them at various stores and they can use it in the form of credit," Hooker said.'I would love to give him a hug' Khoza was working in her garden when News24 contacted her on Thursday morning. "I am so happy. I don&rsquo;t even know what to say. I know that my grandchildren will have a home even when I am gone. I would love to build a new home with the money." Khoza said she was thinking of getting sofas and a bed, but their main priority was getting a roof over their heads. "I will go to Cambridge and buy food for the children," she said, referring to a store in the mall. "We will have a finger-licking good Christmas, thanks to the kind man. I would love to meet Mr Hooker and give him a hug and tell him that we are grateful for what he has done." Khoza said they would buy meat and cold drinks for a small Christmas lunch.'The family is doing much better' Gumede said Hooker called her on Wednesday to give her the news. She could not believe her ears. She said they did not have food, but had managed to get some clothes from a church and were grateful for all the help. "Mr Hooker is welcome to visit us any time. I suggest he comes soon because gogo said if she does not meet him soon, if she dies, she will not get into heaven," quipped Gumede. Community activist Sharon Mdletshe, who had been trying to help the family, also thanked Hooker. She said the Christian Revival Church in Richards Bay had been providing help. She hoped the money Hooker&rsquo;s company was providing would enable the family to buy building material for a new house. The South Africa Social Security Agency in Pietermaritzburg donated a food voucher to the family on Wednesday. "The family is doing much better. We are positive. Things will be okay," Mdletshe said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.