Derrick Spies and Jenni Evans, News24Christopher Panayiotou heads down to the holding cells. (Derrick Spies, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - Christopher Panayiotou bought a R2.2m house in Lovemore Heights, Port Elizabeth, less than a month before his wife Jayde was killed, the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth heard on Wednesday.According to testimony by the conveyancing attorney, Deon van der Merwe, the property was registered only in Panayiotou's name.The full purchase price was R2.2m and transfer costs, deposit and rates of R390 000 would take the amount due by Panayiotou up to R2.512m. A bond would cover the R2.2m, and the rest was paid in separate amounts on the same day.- R150 000 was paid into the Panayiotou family company's trust, but the source of the money was not evident; - R160 000 on the same day came from Panayiotou's account;&nbsp; - R65 000 was paid into the trust account and the proof of payment does not show which account it came from; - R22 000 came from Panayiotou's cheque account.Court adjourned for lunch and clarity on why these amounts may be important is expected after the break.Hitman hiredJayde was abducted while waiting for her lift outside her Stellen Glen complex, on Deacon Road in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, on April 21.Her body was found the next day. She had been shot three times. She was a teacher at Riebeek College Girls' High School in Uitenhage. Her husband Chris was arrested for allegedly orchestrating her murder. He allegedly asked a bouncer at the Infinity Cocktail Bar in Algoa Park, Luthando Siyoni, to hire a hitman to kill her.Siyoni has since turned State witness. Panayiotou and his co-accused Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko are on trial on charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Jayde. They pleaded not guilty. Another accused Sizwezakhe Vumazonke died on September 7 after slipping into a coma. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.